JOHN H. TAYLOR	CBPL, NOEL LAB
GRADUATE STUDENT TEACHING ASSISTANT	[STREET REDACTED]DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY AND BIOCHEMISTRY	LA JOLLA, [STATEZIP REDACTED]

	[PHONE REDACTED]
	[PHONE REDACTED] FAX
	 HYPERLINK "mailto:[EMAIL REDACTED]" [EMAIL REDACTED]

March 4, 2008

To Whom It May Concern:

It is a great pleasure to recommend my former student, Randy Harlan for the Point Scholarship.  It was a delightful experience getting to know him during the rigorous Organic Chemistry Laboratory course this past spring.  

Organic Chemistry is not an easy subject to master and many students struggle through the material.  The course in particular demands a deeper understanding and actual application of the foundation learned in lecture courses.  I expect the students to be well prepared for class so that they are able to work independently with limited supervision; in that regard, he was exceptional.   

He is enthusiastic about his work and his dynamic personality flourished throughout the class, at times uplifting the other struggling students.  As the weeks went on I had the opportunity to get to know him better not only as a student but as a person.  He stood out amongst his peers as hard working and dedicated.  Other students in the class look to him for advice and he is not afraid to ask for help when he is unsure of something. He takes an active role when working in pairs, delegating responsibilities to best complete the experiment at hand.

As I had the chance to get to know him, he told me personally that his Organic Chemistry background is not that strong, but his determination in the course placed him at the top of his section and at the top ten percent of the course.  Similar to his independence and struggles he faced in the past his individual traits are what drove his success. With only a few months to tackle the course material, Randy was able to understand it and bridge connections to materials presented in other classes.  I am confident that Randy will be able to take on any challenges that come his way whether it is in the professional arena or his personal life. 

Randy has expressed a personal interest in going into the research field for HIV/AIDS.  I believe he will be able to provide that field of study with many fresh and unique ideas to further understand the various parts of the virus/disease and the way it behaves in the body.    

I believe that Randy is a great candidate for the Point Scholarship and I look forward to seeing where his enthusiasm and perseverance takes him in his professional career.


Sincerely,



John H. Taylor












