The company has 10 geothermal facilities in CA IV that have the capacity to produce up to 327 megawatts. The plants produce electricity solely from naturally occurring geothermal steam. Geothermal production wells tap into superheated water reservoirs thousands of feet beneath the Earth's surface to release tremendous pressure, caused by the hot water, which rushes to the surface. There, steam is separated and used to drive turbines to generate electricity.

Eight of the Imperial Valley facilities – Vulcan, Hoch, Elmore, Leathers and Salton Sea 1, 2, 3 and 4 – are under contract to sell power to Southern California Edison Company under 30-year power purchase agreements. Salton Sea 5 and the CE Turbo plant sell virtually all of their power to third parties.


Analysis of geothermal solids, geothermal fluids, geothermal gases and environmental samples including ground water, soil samples, air samples and surface water using spectroscopic techniques, chromatography techniques. Conducts data entry, graphs analytical data and calculated results and conducts descriptive interval statistics. I Use following instrumentation: ICP-OES, ICP-MS, GC, IC, HPLC, AA, and X-ray fluorescence spectrometer.


Following strict quality control procedures established through the QA/QC supervisor and adhering to California Environmental Protection Agency and United States Environmental Protection Agency’s analytical procedures. Perform work with minimal supervision and direction from supervisor.



Prepare standards and quality control solutions and perform calculations involving dilutions, normality, molarity and stoichiometry.



Ensure analytical results are accurate and precise through the effective use of quality assurance and quality control protocols. Report results to appropriate personnel in a timely manner.



Perform data entry, interval statistical analysis and calculations. Build and execute formulas and generate charts in spreadsheet applications. Perform data entry and recovery using the Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS).



Train laboratory and operations personnel in analytical procedures and data reporting.



Write standard operating procedures.



Perform routine maintenance and standardization on laboratory equipment.



Diagnose and perform minor repairs on laboratory instrumentation.



Perform additional responsibilities, includ
