

Teaching 


Extensive hands-on experience in the practice of teaching Organic chemistry and solid grasp of its theories. Comprehensive knowledge and understanding of the subject to create, execute, and analyze student assessments. Outstanding ability to bring about and maintain high academic standards. Ability to work closely and collaboratively with the school administration. Have the ability to communicate complex information in a simple and entertaining manner.


Extensive hands-on experience in the practice of teaching chemistry and a solid grasp of its theories. Comprehensive knowledge and understanding of the subject to create, execute, and analyze student assessments. Outstanding ability to uphold and maintain high academic standards. Ability to work closely and collaboratively with the school administration. Have the ability to communicate complex information in a simple and entertaining manner.


Distillation

A well presented, highly personable and efficient communicator with a dynamic background with an ability to work independently and in a changing and multi-tasking environment. I have knowledge of the brewing science; and a thorough understanding of the theory and procedures of the distillation process. I work very well with people and enjoy getting the work at hand completed. Looking for a position that can utilize my innovative and problem solving abilities. Having a strong customer service orientation and delivery focus and an active commitment to continuous improvement and quality standards.








O-Chem -old

Skilled Masters level synthetic chemist possessing leadership and scientific proficiency in the design, synthesis, purification, characterization, and evaluation of highly functionalized small molecules as selective enzyme inhibitors. Seeking company position that will utilize these talents within an interactive, team-oriented environment and provide opportunities for challenging syntheses.

Skilled masters-level Synthetic/Analytic chemist possessing leadership and scientific proficiency in the investigation and evaluation of chemical and physical properties of moderately complex compounds.  Experienced in operation and production issues with a focus on environmental regulation, employee health, and safety guided by federal, state, local laws, codes, and regulations. Seeking a company position that will utilize these talents and skills as well as provide opportunities for problem solving within an interactive, team-oriented environment.  





Guest Speaker - Imperial Valley College STEM club guest speaker - April 2014 

