Undergraduate Independent Research (Biochemistry)

Studied the role of vitamin C in glucose metabolism in rabbit skeletal muscle. I performed experiments that proved micro molar concentrations of vitamin C are capable of specifically inhibiting three purified muscle enzymes (adenylate kinase mAK, lactate dehydrogenase (mLDH), and 1-phosphofructokinase (mPFK-1)).  
I gained experience working with laboratory equipment, conducting experiments, analyzing data and more importantly the ability to use inductive reasoning to solve problems. 


Undergraduate Independent Research (Organic chemistry)

Established the fundamental scientific knowledge and skills required to carry out organic synthesis, which included the design, synthesis, purification and characterization of novel chemical entities. Through my hard efforts I improved at problem solving by using a methodical and analytic approach while learning the ability to make quick decisions during changing circumstances. This experience helped me become more independent and taught me the ability not to second-guess myself and instead thinking clearly and logically, relying on my scientific reasoning, I am very confident that the skills learned through research will be applied in my future as a physician. 

Valley convalescent center

Coordinated and planed social events for the residents, took blood pressures, changed and cleaned beds, helped feed and change clothes for patients, served food, read and provided companionship and support.  
I developed strong interpersonal and leadership skills interacting with nurses, doctors and patients while learning good bedside manner and how to address patients on a personal level.

University link Medical Science Program

This four-week summer residential program was designed for premedical and allied health community college students from educationally or financially disadvantaged backgrounds interested in medicine (?) in order to increase there preparation as well as the understanding of population-based workforce needs, and recruitment and retention of medical and allied health students who are committed to serving underserved populations. 
I shadowed doctors, attended daily lectures on health disparities among ethnic minority groups, and presented a research presentation on breast cancer.
This program helped strengthen my desires to become a physician and work in underserved areas by offering lectures on health sciences and minority health and culturally competent medicine allowing me to see some of the cross culture diversity that is present in today’s medical society. 
To help pursue these desire I learned study skills and standardized test taking trainings. Information and counseling regarding opportunities in basic science, community-based, clinical or public health research as projects or careers. 
 I realized that a health career would fit perfectly with my desire to help others.




Student Support Service Program (SSSP)  

This program was created for first generation, low-income as well as students with disabilities. It provided a home base environment where supportive learning takes place using a holistic approach focusing on a my academic, cultural and social experience at UCSD where I can receive academic support, develop supportive peer networks, participate in a variety of activities designed to enhance my success at UCSD, and increase awareness of graduate and professional programs.
Through mentorship, academic programs, one-to-one counseling/advising, campus student support service referrals and social/cultural programming, I became more involved and succeeded in the campus academic community. In addition to assisting me through to graduation, SSSP helped motivate and inform me to utilize services to enhance my preparation medical school admission. I was able to gain a sense of excellence, achievement, leadership and community building.





.


