1.
My desire to help others, my experiences growing up, and my future ambitions are what motivate me to pursue a career in pharmacy. As a pharmacist, I will have the opportunity to allow my compassion and service to play a vital role in the healing process of others. From providing patients with antibiotics to treat an infection, to helping a patient solve and understand an insurance issue, I will be proud that I followed my passion to help others and improve the quality of their lives. Growing up in a poor, uninsured family, I became accustomed to depending on the local pharmacist for advice when someone in my family became sick. I developed both respect and admiration for the pharmacists as I watched them use patience and empathy when explaining medications to my Spanish speaking, 77 year old grandma. My future ambitions are to return to my small, Hispanic, low income community to practice pharmacy. It is my goal to help increase both the care and quality of care in my medically underserved community.
I am interested in working as a community pharmacist. For many people, a community pharmacist is the first place they go to with health questions. I look forward to helping a patient who comes in late at night because their baby is sick and has been crying all night. I believe my patience and empathy for others will allow me to care for patients of all ages. I feel my ability to communicate both clearly and effectively will best be utilized as a community pharmacist.

2.
In my commitment to prepare myself as a future pharmacist, I have worked diligently to build leadership, develop interpersonal communication skills, and gain knowledge and experience in the profession. First, I built leadership working 40 hours per week for the past two summers conducting biochemistry research at the UC San Diego School of Medicine. Using my prior work experience in Dr. [PERSON REDACTED]’s lab, I worked as a group leader for the two summers training other college students to conduct research and write research papers. Second, I developed my interpersonal communication skills through my experiences working with the elderly community. For the past three years, I’ve worked in an Alzheimer’s unit at a retirement home. In addition, I have worked as a live-in personal care giver for two elderly couple’s with Alzheimer’s disease in exchange for room and board. Finally, I have gained knowledge and experience in the pharmacy profession through my volunteer experiences. During my volunteer internship at the hospital, I shadowed physicians and nurses on the post surgery floor. Although I plan to work as a community pharmacist, the experience taught me how the nurses and doctors depend on pharmacists. During my volunteer internship at the UCSD student health pharmacy, I shadowed two pharmacists on a weekly basis and discussed past and current pharmacy issues they have faced. During my preparation for pharmacy, I realized the relationships I gained, the experiences I had, and the happiness I felt while helping others are what keep me motivated.

3. N/A




4.
My personal goal is to assist the youth, from educationally and economically disadvantaged communities, break through barriers and attend college. Raised in such an environment, I know from personal experience the struggles and adversity they must conquer to reach such goals. After my parents divorced in third grade, I was raised by my grandma from Mexico who couldn’t speak English, read or write. She, like many others in my community, worked in the fields her whole life. I struggled academically through elementary and middle school with no motivation to improve. While playing quarterback on the varsity football team, my coach became a role model and father figure.  He taught me responsibility, dedication, and leadership. As a first generation college student, I never thought of college until he encouraged me. After high school, I enrolled in the local community college. Struggling initially, I overcame my academic disadvantages using my coach’s lessons. I began coaching a youth football team and tutoring math to struggling, Spanish speaking students while encouraging them to attend college. As I transferred to UCSD, I was fortunate to join a program designed to help increase the number of minority students entering health professions. During the University Link Medical Science Program, I shadowed health professionals and new mentors. Dr. [PERSON REDACTED] and Dr. [PERSON REDACTED] helped me find minority grants to conduct research. They encouraged my commitment to my professional goals as I struggled financially without family help; I worked 3 jobs while at UCSD. I plan to return to my community and create programs intended to increase the number of disadvantaged youths entering college.

5.
One social problem in the United States is the care for and misunderstanding of the elderly patients with Alzheimer’s disease. First, the care for these elderly patients is often in an unsupportive environment. In high school, I went with my friend to visit his grandpa with Alzheimer’s in a retirement home. The nurses caring for him were uncompassionate to his needs. For example, they placed him in a room with little human interaction. I knew that something needed to be changed. Later, when I entered UCSD, I found the solutions to the problems my friend’s grandpa faced. For the past three years, I’ve worked in the Alzheimer’s unit of a retirement home with compassionate professionals who are trained in dementia-specific programs. They provide individual attention and planned group activities designed to increase the patients’ attention span, minimize stress and encourage interaction with others. Second, the misunderstanding of the Alzheimer’s disease creates many obstacles for the patient’s family members. Last summer, while living with and working as a personal care giver for an elderly couple, I gained first hand experience with this problem. The wife knew very little about her husband’s Alzheimer’s disease although he had been suffering from it for 3 years. In fact, she believed that he would soon return to normal since he had been a smart, medical doctor. Knowing that I worked in an Alzheimer’s unit and was studying to become a pharmacist, she turned to me for answers. After gathering information, I sat down with her to read and explain the disease. I believe that supportive care and knowledge of the Alzheimer’s disease are the solutions to maximizing the quality of life for the patients.



6.
My Grandma [PERSON REDACTED] [PERSON REDACTED] [PERSON REDACTED] is the person whom I admire greatly in my life. I often think of her and my Hispanic heritage because it reminds me to strive to live by the ideals she possessed. One ideal I strongly admired was her perseverance to overcome her adversity. My grandma was born, raised, and married in Mexico, but she moved to the USA to find a better life for her family. While working as a migrant field worker to support her twelve children, my grandpa became ill and passed way from a heart attack.
Left alone as a single parent to raise twelve children, she courageously took charge of the situation, and continued working in the field to overcome her obstacles. Another reason I admire my grandma was her desire to teach. Although she couldn’t help with my homework, never learning to speak English, read, or write, she did teach me about my culture, how to dance to her favorite music, and how to follow my dreams. When she began raising me in the third grade, she taught me to never forget where my family came from, yet always try to accomplish more for my family. Lastly, I admire my grandma’s strong compassion to help others. She always wanted to heal and nurse others back to health using home remedies, or work through someone’s emotional wounds using her empathy and love. She taught me that money isn’t needed to help the less fortunate, only a deep desire. I shared a loving bond until my eight grade year when she died at the age of 82, in my house, from colon cancer. Holding her hands a half hour before she died in her packed bedroom, I realized how many others admired her. My grandma is my hero because she lived by the ideals that I strive for everyday.

7.
Strongest weakest characteristics

8.
Coming from a low income family, I have always worked during the academic year to overcome my financial hardships. While studying at my junior college, I averaged 35 hours per week. I worked 16 hours as a construction worker each weekend, and 20 hours per week as a math tutor and assistant to the college’s student government director. Living with my family, I did not have to pay rent while at my junior college. However, when I transferred to UCSD, I had to work a little more to pay for my living quarters. I began working in an Alzheimer’s unit at a retirement home, averaging 30 hours during the week and weekends. While conducting biochemistry research at UCSD School of Medicine for college units, I took a job as the part time lab manager. Working 6 hours per week, I prepared solutions and washed the lab’s glass ware usually after leaving the library late at night. Finally, to help lower my monthly rent, I moved in and worked as a personal care giver for two elderly families. First, I lived with an elderly woman during my first year at UCSD; I averaged 15 hours per week preparing meals and driving her to various appointments. Later, at the end of my second year, I lived with an elderly couple who was struggling with the husband’s Alzheimer’s disease. Preparing food, shopping for groceries, and assisting the husband with exercises including swimming, I averaged 20 hours per week. Luckily, I was able to juggle my work hours around my academics by working in the mornings, nights, and weekends. During pharmacy school, I would like to gain more experience working in a pharmacy setting, but I plan to work only 10 hours per week in order to focus on my academics.
9.
I have gained leadership and maturity as well as clinical, research, and communication skills through my participation in extra-curricular activities. At my junior college, I served on the student government as the President of Affairs. Responsible for organizing the sporting, social, and fundraising events, I gained dependability. Then, I decided to start a chemistry club at my junior college serving as the Founder and President of the club. Utilizing the club to give back to the community, we invited elementary students into our lab, and introduced chemistry by performing visual experiments. After participating in the University Link Medical Science Program at UCSD, I returned the following summer to serve as Assistant Head Pre-Medical Counselor for 12 minority students pursing a health professional career. As a counselor, I coordinated local physicians, pharmacists, and researchers to lecture the students and assisted the students in their health disparity research posters. Next, I served as the Philanthropy and Fundraising Chair of my fraternity; I organized our annual breast cancer and Children’s Hospital fundraising events. I also gained personal satisfaction through bi-monthly philanthropy events and providing food to our adopted family every Thanks Giving. Conducting biochemistry research for the last two summers at UCSD, I served as the Research Group Leader of 5 college students. Working 40 hours per week through a minority grant, I conducted research, trained other students, and gave a research paper, poster board, and power point presentation to the faculty. Next, I gained communication skills volunteering as a Research Assistant at the VA Hospital. I recruited potential patients by phone for our studies in preventative medicine for Hepatitis C and breast cancer. Later, I served as a Clinical Care Extender Volunteer at the Palomar Pomerado Hospital on the post surgery floor. Later, I increased my clinical experience shadowing doctors and helping patients eat, bathe, and change clothes. Finally, volunteering as a Pharmacy Intern at the UCSD student health pharmacy, I gained a deeper understanding and desire for the profession. Working with and discussing issues the pharmacist dealt with allowed me learn more about my future profession.
