UCLA/DREW  (Due jan31) 

6. Describe the role you play in your immediate family. (Response limited to 600 characters)

As the first person in my family to attend a four-year university, I play an important role in serving as the source that provides my family with strength and motivation. As an uncle to three nephews and one niece, I encourage their involvement with education in hopes that they will break the barriers of living in an educationally underserved area and attend college. Throughout my childhood, I played an important role in my father’s life as I supported him in his battle with drug addiction.

7. How would you describe the community and socioeconomic environment in which you spent your childhood? (Response limited to 600 characters)

I was born and raised in El Centro California, located in the Imperial Valley in the southeast corner of California on the United States/Mexico border. El Centro is an agriculturally based rural town that is geographically isolated from any large metropolitan city. Imperial County suffers from the highest unemployment rate in the state and poverty levels that are almost twice as high the state average (2000 Census data).  Even with these set backs I enjoyed growing up in El Centro because it was a small and safe community where most people would know one another. I look forward to the day that I can go back and help make a change for the better.    (645 characters) 

9. To what extent has your past experiences and/or accomplishments demonstrated your understanding of and commitment to underserved communities? (Response limited to 600 characters)

My understanding of an underserved community is first-hand.  I have grown up in an underserved community, and I have experienced the negative effects of inadequate health care. In addition, I have worked full time for three years in an underserved hospital, and this experience has allowed me to learn more about what I can do to help underserved communities. 
My commitment to underserved communities can be directly related to my personal accomplishments and the adversity that I have faced to be where I am today. My desire to serve in a medically underserved community gave me the strength to overcome my obstacles and pursue my career as a physician.

10. What role will you play as a physician in the changing health care system over the next ten years? (Response limited to 600 characters)

As a physician I plan to partake in a role that not only adapts to new changes in health care but also one who seeks to have an input and an effect in the new changes. As a physician, I will continually stress my concern with inadequate heath care in underserved communities.

11. What is the most important health care issue confronting underserved communities?  How would you address it? (Response limited to 600 characters)

The most important health care issue confronting underserved communities is the lack of health care. During my time working at my local hospital, I viewed the effects that the lack of health can have on a community. It was devastating to see an emergency waiting room filled with patients waiting to be seen. I plan on addressing this problem by personally serving in an underserved community, but I know that I cannot solve this problem alone. Therefore, I plan to be involved in organizations and programs that aim to increase the number of physicians in underserved areas. 

12. What are your career plans if you are not accepted to medical school? (Response limited to 600 characters)

If not accepted into medical school, I will continue as a chemist conducting research in the field of organic chemistry, designing and synthesizing medicinally related drugs. I will continue to pursue a career as a physician until I am accepted and can accomplish my goals that I set forth 6 years ago. 

13. How did you first learn about Drew? (Response limited to 600 characters)

I first heard about Drew/UCLA while working in the radiology department at my local hospital. During a conversation with a radiologist about my plans for medical school, he mentioned Drew/UCLA and said that it would fit perfectly with my mission to serve in a medically unrepresented town. I then became very interested in the Drew/UCLA Medical Education Program and was fortunate enough to live close enough to visit it. With the knowledge that I gained from my first visit, I decided that Drew/UCLA would be an excellent place to attend medical school.

15. In the remaining space, provide any additional information which will give the Admissions Committee greater insight about you as an applicant. (Response limited to 600 characters)

Chicago UIC (feb 1)

1. Describe a situation in which you were really stressed. Tell us how you dealt with it. Please detail your reactions(s), and how it affected you. If this situation or a similar one were to happen again, how would you handle it? (Don’t exceed 250 words)

About five years ago, my mother was told that she had a brain tumor.  She underwent two intensive surgeries and a very lengthy recovery process. This caused me and my family a great deal of stress and sadness, but it was not until. One and a half years later, we found out that my sister also had a brain tumor.  I became very emotionally stressed: it was not only because my sister might have to go through the same pain my mother went through, but also that my seven year old nephew would have to go through the pain that I felt with my mother. I remember thinking to myself that I would need to stay calm knowing that if my nephew saw me emotionally distraught, it would only worry him more. Keeping my composure and ensuring my nephew that the lord would be on are side was the right call to make. My sister underwent a short operation and a speedy recovery. In observing what my mother went through, it was hard for me to believe that my nephew would not go through what I went through but having faith paid off and I would make the same decision if it happened again.

2. Describe a hobby, interest, or activity other than something in medicine, that you are passionate about or love. Why? (Don’t exceed 250 words)

SUNY Downstate (feb 1)

11. [Only if this applies to you] If you are not from the New York City metropolitan area (Five Boroughs), describe what personal experiences prepare you to live and study in New York City, and what will be your personal support system? (Attach an additional sheet, if necessary.)

The personal experiences that have prepared me to live in New York are my personal characteristics that I have obtained throughout life. As a child, I faced a great deal of adversity. This adversity has made me the individual that I am today: strong-willed and able to adapt to any situation…
As far as my personal support system, I have a few friends that live in the surrounding Boroughs that can show me the ropes if needed. 

13. [Optional] If you have a specific reason why you have chosen to apply to SUNY Downstate's College of Medicine, please explain. (Attach an additional sheet, if necessary.)

Might want to take this sentence out, it doesn’t make sense and you already mentioned your nephew was reliving your pain earlier….
Also, you didn’t mention if a similar situation happened again how you would handle it….if your sister getting a tumor was the similar situation, then you have to make that more clear.
Use a different word, personal is already in this sentence
Show you the ropes? Is that appropriate for this response?  Is it too informal?


