WORK EXPERIENCE
Lead Chemist/CSO
CalEnergy Operating Corporation/ Berkshire Hathaway Energy - La Jolla, CA
2012 to Present
LIMS Administrator/Safety Committee chairperson
• Lead Chemist - Analysis of geothermal solids, fluids, gases and environmental samples including ground water, soil
samples, air samples and surface water using spectroscopic techniques and chromatography techniques.
• Chemical safety Officer (CSO) -I facilitated the implementation of the Chemical Hygiene Plan, provided guidance on
laboratory safety compliance and technical subjects and lead [PERSON REDACTED] "Safety Tailgate Meetings Organized and headed up
group for in house safety concerns through employee involvement and contribution to build a safer workplace.
• Safety Committee chairperson - Assisted in establishing a safe work environment by collaborating with the Health &
Safety Department (H&S) and faculty. As the Safety Committee Chairperson I assumed extra responsibilities of leading the
meetings, preparing an agenda and ensuring that the committee carries out its function to Promote and maintain the
interest of employees in health and safety issues.
• LIMS (Laboratory Information Management System) Administrator - Configured and integrated the software to support the
evolving business needs of the company pertaining to laboratory data.
Graduate Teaching Assistant
UCSD, Department of Chemistry & Department of Biology - La Jolla, CA
2005 to 2008
Instruction, Advising and Evaluation of Undergraduates
• Instructed Laboratory Classes and Lectures in Microbiology, Inorganic and Organic Chemistry courses.
• Created and graded quizzes, exams and lab reports.
• Set up and supervised lab experiments.
Chemist
Go Taylor Motorsports - La Jolla, CA
2005 to 2008
HUDSON
TAYLOR
Lead Chemist/CSO - CalEnergy Operating Corporation/ Berkshire Hathaway Energy
El Centro, [STATEZIP REDACTED]
[EMAIL REDACTED]
[PHONE REDACTED]
A well presented, highly personable and efficient communicator with a vey dynamic background with an ability to work
independently and in a changing and multi-tasking environment. Having a strong customer service orientation and delivery
focus and an active commitment to continuous improvement and quality standards.

Masters Thesis Research
Design and Synthesis of Small Organic Selective Substrate Enzyme Inhibitors
• Worked with Crystallographers to design possible functional substrate analogs and/or substrate inhibitors.
• Contributed to projects targeting YCHB, EGS/IGS, HDAC's and FXR.
Owner
Go Taylor Motorsports - El Centro, CA
[STREET REDACTED]vehicle parts and accessories
• Organization of financials, inventory, schedules and production
• Maintained proper accounting of all sales
• Maintained a high order of customer care and satisfaction
Owner
Go Taylor Motorsports - La Jolla, CA
2004 to 2005
Undergraduate Independent Research
Total Organic Synthesis of Natural Products
• Carried out the synthesis, purification and full characterization of various intermediate steps in the total synthesis of
complex organic molecules.
• Performed small-scale reactions and optimized conditions for large-scale syntheses.
Owner
Go Taylor Motorsports - La Jolla, CA
2003 to 2004
Undergraduate Independent Research
Studied the role of vitamin C in glucose metabolism within rabbit skeletal muscle
• Performed experiments that proved micro molar concentrations of vitamin C are capable of specifically inhibiting three
purified muscle enzymes.
• Gained experience working with laboratory equipment, conducting experiments, analyzing data and more importantly
using inductive reasoning to solve problems.
Medical Imaging Aide
Go Taylor Motorsports - El Centro, CA
2000 to 2003
• Transportation and care of patients within the hospital
• Positioning of patients for examinations
• Processed and developed X-Ray images
EDUCATION
Certificate
University of California Extension - La Jolla, CA

2014 to Present
Certificate in Brewing
University of California - La Jolla, CA
2005 to 2008
Bachelor of Science in Biology
University of California - La Jolla, CA
2003 to 2005
Associate of Science in Biology
Imperial Valley College - Imperial, CA
2001 to 2003
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
SKILLS/CERTIFICATIONS
Water Treatment: Certified California State Water Treatment Operator (Grade T2)
In Processes of obtaining: Certified California State Water Distribution Operator (Grade T2)
Organic Chemistry: Design and multi-step synthesis, purification, and characterization of highly functionalized organic
molecules. NMR (1H, 13C, DEPT, COSY; Varian 500MHz NMRS), Chromatography (flash, vacuum, TLC, prep TLC, and
silica HPLC, chiral HPLC, GC, Biotage SP4 automated flash chromatography systems), distillation, crystallization, GCMS &
LCMSn (Agilent), microwave assisted reactions (Biotage), scale-up, problem solving, and proficiency with online databases
and computer tools (Scifinder, Web of Science, Pubmed, Chemdraw, Word, Excel), excellent communication and
interpersonal skills
Analytical Chemistry: ICP-OES, ICP-MS, GC, IC, HPLC, AA, and X-ray fluorescence spectrometer
