All,
Here are some questions I received via e-mail, the responses in GREEN could be helpful.
1. Should the principal loan be added to the interest loan to get a total interest expense or should it be considered as a bank charge?
See Discussion Board>Forum:Introductions>Thread: HOMEWORK [PRIVATE IDENTIFIER REDACTED]
2. Per conventional wisdom on the internet, Brewhouse Depreciation has been included in COGS.  Since the brewhouse supports both Beer Sales and Tasting Room Beer Sales, I allocated the Brewhouse Depreciation to both of these line items, based on their percentage of the square feet of both (Office Space square footage was not included in these brewhouse depreciation calculations).  I did this to remain consistent with the method for allocating rent and utilities, however it may be more appropriate to allocate deprecation based on their percentage of revenue, but that type of decision is beyond the scope of my capabilities at present!
Depreciation of $1,800 for brewhouse would just go to beer sales.  Tasting room would be considered a separate thing and no depreciation numbers for the tasting room were given, so there was nothing to class to the tasting room.
With regard to methods of allocating costs, the method used depends on the cost.  A fairly basic method of allocating utilities is to allocate based on percentage of square footage used.  Depreciation is the “using up” of an asset.  So you look first as to the purpose of the asset to determine where the depreciation expense is recorded.  If an asset is shared between multiple purposes, then it could be allocated by square footage, usage, etc.  So a building would typically be allocated by square footage.  A forklift could be allocated based on usage (brewhouse, warehouse, etc).
 By the way, depreciation expense is also calculated in many different ways for a company.  Brewhouse equipment is usually best depreciated based on production amount in barrels (the mfr will usually be able to give you a life in production numbers). Although a straight line depreciation method (total cost of asset divided by the life of the equipment) is also acceptable, as well as easier.
3.  Allocation of the Rent, Water and SDGE for the 500 square feet of office space was all included in Occupancy, since these are not directly related to the production of the product and therefore should not be included in COGS.
The main ingredient in beer is water, so it is included in COGS, water is used in the tasting room, so it is included in tasting bar COGS, the office space portion goes to occupancy. Electricity is used for the equipment to produce beer, and also in the tasting room, so the same as water applies.
Rent is allocated on basis of usage, which the simplest method is square foot allocation, so same thing as water and electric.
4. As I was going through the homework I wasn't sure where to account for the stock purchases on the Statement of Operations. Would Stock purchases fall under other income or like a keg deposit do you consider it a liability that must be paid back later?
Stock purchase refers to the purchase of a share of ownership and is considered equity, not a liability.  So if you go back to the financial statement slides in the PowerPoint (8-12), you’ll find where it goes.
5. Also, speaking of keg deposits, are these an element that should be factored in to the COGS for brewery production or a misc liability under operating expenses? On one side, I see keg deposits being a part of the brewing process (COGS). On the other side I can see keg deposits being like mileage for delivering a keg, and treated as an additional operating expense. How should I be factoring keg deposits into my SOO?
Keg deposits (aka cooperage deposits) are a liability because they are moniess that are collected at the time of sale and held until the keg is returned.
With regard to either COGs or operating expense, keg deposits wouldn’t apply.  The cost of an actual keg would be accounted for in a few different ways.
1 – If purchased outright, then the keg would be recorded as a fixed asset on the Stmt of Fnl Position (SOFP).  Depreciation expense would be recorded in COGS since COGS includes packaging costs and an entry would be made to Accum Depreciation (a contra asset account that reduces the value of a fixed asset).  Depreciation is a way of “using up” an asset.
2 – If leased over the long term (eg Keg Credit), then the keg would be put on the SOFP as a fixed asset along with an entry to long-term liability to record the lease.
3 – If rented (MicroStar), then the monthly rental expense is record directly COGS

