LUC SSOM - Supplemental Application for John Taylor (12255426)
[URL REDACTED]
1 of 3
11/9/07 4:04 PM
Click Here To Print Application
REC'D & PAID ___________
Loyola Use Only
 
NAME: John Taylor
 
AMCAS ID: 12255426
1. What do you consider a valuable experience in your personal development? This might be a decision 
you have made, an achievement of which you are particularly proud, or a person who has influenced 
your life.
A valuable experience in my personal development are the adversities I faced growing up, the obstacles I 
have overcome in my path to a career in medicine and how these traits gave me the drive to serve others 
confronted by the same challenges.
In describing my personal traits I would have to express my motivation to succeed, dedication to reaching 
my full potential, passion for health care and my enthusiasm on life. As a child I was faced with a great 
deal of adversity and developing theses traits was a necessary requirement. I have had to apply these 
traits in order to overcome many obstacles that I have been faced with in my path to a career in medicine. 
The disabilities that have challenged me allowed me to develop the abilities that I now possess to face any 
task head on, adding to my dynamic personality.
The first most interesting example of my character was my courage and ability to enter into college after my 
below average performance in high school. The task of entering college after a 3-year gap allowed me to 
enter college as a mature and determined adult. A second interesting characteristic would be my success 
and achievements that followed my entrance into college. Unlike high school, I became involved in various 
clubs and organizations, which ultimately lead to my success. Another interesting facet to my education 
would be my thesis based Masters and the research that I have performed to help contribute to the field of 
science. Amongst the pursuit of these goals, I controlled my eternal fight with Attention Deficit 
Hyperactivity Disorder, which was something that had overpowered me in the past and has greatly 
contributed to my diverse character.
My understanding of an underserved community is first-hand. I have grown up in an underserved
community, and I have experienced the negative effects of inadequate health care. In addition, I have 
worked full time for three years in an underserved hospital, and this experience has allowed me to learn 
more about what I can do to help underserved communities.
My commitment to underserved communities can be directly related to my personal accomplishments and 
the adversity that I have faced to be where I am today. My desire to serve in a medically underserved 
community gave me the strength to overcome my obstacles and pursue my career as a physician.
2. Describe briefly how you have dealt with a personal or academic problem you have encountered.
About Six years ago, my mother was told that she had a brain tumor. She underwent two intensive 
surgeries and a very lengthy recovery process. This caused my family and I a great deal of stress and 
sadness, but it was not until, a year later when we found out that my sister also had a brain tumor. I
became very emotionally stressed: it was not only because my sister might have to go through the same 
pain my mother went through, but also that my seven year old nephew would have to undergo the same 
pain that I felt with my mother. I realized that I would need to stay calm knowing that if my nephew saw me 
emotionally distraught, it would only worry him more. Keeping my composure and ensuring my nephew that 
the Lord would be on are side was the right call to make. My sister underwent a short operation and a 
speedy recovery. In observing what my mother went through, it was hard to believe that my nephew would
not go through what I went through but having faith paid off and I would make the same decision if it 
happened again. 
3. How did you reach your decision to enter medicine? Describe your participation in any health care
or other activities which reinforced your decision.
After graduating from high school, I joined the workforce, working long and intense hours to help support 
my family. It was during this time that I found myself wanting more; for the first time, I was concerned
about my future. My first step was to obtain a more meaningful job. The medical field drew me in and I

LUC SSOM - Supplemental Application for John Taylor (12255426)
[URL REDACTED]
2 of 3
11/9/07 4:04 PM
entered the field of radiology as a medical imaging aide. I began to understand first hand what doctors do
as they help others on a daily basis. I began to look up to their ability to help people and later realized that 
I, too, wanted to be able to help people.
Working full time in a hospital for three years has made me very determined to become a physician. Every
day I came to work, my decision to go into medicine was strengthened. I would listen and speak to doctors 
in order to gain a deeper insight into their profession. The information provided by the doctors was not 
always on the positive side, but this only strengthens my desire to pursue medicine in the hopes that I can 
help make a change for the better. My desire to practice medicine emerged while working directly with
doctors and patients. Becoming a doctor will not only allow me to utilize my knowledge when taking care of 
patients but will also enable me to apply my technical and analytical skills to medical challenges.
During my work in the radiology lab, I set a new goal for myself, one that would bring me back to school. I
enrolled in classes at my community college. The success I had in my first semester in conjunction with my
diligent efforts in a full time job gave me confidence that I could take on the challenge of preparing myself 
for medical school. Using the determination and the confidence that I gained from my scholastic
achievements, I felt ready to attempt school again. The fear that once defeated me was no longer going to
pose as a threat. In conclusion, it was my passion for medicine that drove me to pursue college and in turn
medical school.
4. What self-education, research, or independent scholastic work have you undertaken and what do you 
feel you have accomplished in this work?
For the past four years, I have performed research in the field of organic chemistry. I recently finished my 
thesis-based Masters at UCSD. This experience has taught me valuable lessons: lessons that not only
apply to research, but life itself. I learned that when faced with a problem, teamwork and communication
become essential for success.
The main questions that I pursued were in the drug design and drug synthesis for the development of 
substrate analogs and/or substrate inhibitors. In order to pursue these questions, I needed to have a
creative but logical mind and then have the initiative to put my plan into action. 
The results did not always go as planned. In many instances, reactions would fail to go to completion or not
go at all and I would have to change the conditions of the reaction in order to drive it to completion. In
some cases, when a reaction did not work and changing the conditions of the reaction did not help, a
totally new route of synthesis would need to be designed. This new scheme would sometimes change a
6-step synthesis into a 9-step synthesis. Knowing that things don’t always go as planned has been key to
my success. It has helped me plan and design questions and pursue those questions more efficiently using
all possible scenarios.
My hard work and dedication recently paid off when one of the projects I was working on led to a recent 
PLoS One publication. This project taught me the importance of protection group strategies and how 
'so-called' standard methodologies such as asymmetric cyclopropanation are not so standard once you 
stray from the model substrate. Regardless of final yield, I meticulously isolated and characterized the
products. Notably, the majority side product proved successful as the first substrate based inhibitor, which
has been extremely helpful in determining the EGS reaction mechanism structurally. The phenyl propanoid
pathway is very important to my labs research, and these structures and mechanistic models are enabling 
the exploration to many other evolutionary related enzymes, many of which play a key role in natural 
product biosynthesis. 
I feel that my long history of research has developed my mind in a way such that I am using it to its best 
ability in and out of lab. Research has giving me the strength to pursue challenges and to see obstacles as
opportunities. 
5. If you will not be enrolled as a full-time student during the current academic year, please explain 
what you will be doing prior to your planned matriculation into medical school.
After my baccalaureate program I enrolled into a Masters of Science program at UCSD, performing my
research at The Salk Institute. During this time I became a contributing author of a publication in PLoS One
and served as a full time teaching assistant, teaching over 10 separate classes of organic chemistry
laboratory. Following my Master’s degree I obtained a job as a senior research associate in an industrial
setting developing and synthesizing molecules for use as potential drug candidates and will continue doing
so until matriculation to medical school. I will also continue to volunteer. This summer I led a small group of

LUC SSOM - Supplemental Application for John Taylor (12255426)
[URL REDACTED]
3 of 3
11/9/07 4:04 PM
volunteers to Mexico in order to help with awareness concerning medical education; it was such a success
that I am planning another Mexico trip this winter.
6. Please use this space to bring the information contained on your AMCAS application up-to-date. 
Indicate grades earned, alterations in your proposed course work or graduation date, address changes, 
additions to your list of activities, and anything else you feel we should know.
7. Please indicate the state in which you claim residence. If this is not the same as the state of legal 
residence indicated on your AMCAS application, you should explain the reason on a separate sheet of 
paper. If you are uncertain about your residency status, you may call our Admission's Office for information 
on Stritch's Residency Policy.
I claim residence in the state of: California
8. Have you ever been convicted of a crime other than a minor traffic or parking violation? If the answer is 
yes, please attach an explanation on a separate sheet.
Yes __*__   No ____
9. May we notify your premedical advisor of the decision reached on your application?
Yes ____   No __*__
If we may notify your advisor, please indicate the advisor's name and college address below.
Name: 
Department: 
College: 
Address: 
City: State: Zip Code:
10. Please indicate a telephone number and E-mail address where we can reach you, or get a message to 
you between now and April 15, if we have a question about your application or wish to extend an invitation 
to interview.
Telephone: [PHONE REDACTED] E-mail Address: [EMAIL REDACTED]
11. Please date and sign this form.
With this signature, I certify that the information contained on this form is correct and accurate to the best
of my knowledge. Falsification or omission of information on any medical school application materials can 
result in the rejection or dismissal from medical school.
Name: John Taylor      [PRIVATE IDENTIFIER REDACTED]
Date ______________ Signature ________________________________________
