
Manager, Market Development (San Diego, CA) - Beer Division - (5668)
Position Summary:

This position drives sales performance by managing sales, retail execution, operations and key relationships at Wholesaler(s) in an assigned DMA for the Constellation Brands Beer Division. The incumbent partners with an area General Manager to set priorities and execute the business plan for a high priority sales territory.

Key Responsibilities:

Wholesaler Management

ï    Manage and direct a Wholesaler, or group of Wholesalers, including execution of Constellationís Retail Vision, and Wholesaler Standards and Practices.
ï    Direct and implement training and development initiatives for Wholesalers under management.
ï    Participate in the development and execution of the 3 year strategic plan associated with the Constellation Gold Network strategy.
ï    Communicate and collaborate best practice sharing and KPI scorecards across distributor groups with common ownership within the Constellation Gold Network strategy.
ï    Participate on team projects to identify back of house shared services to add value across multiple distributors.
ï    Supervise and monitor the allocation and use of all point-of-sale materials in accordance with budgeting and account/market objectives.
ï    Provides support and follow through for the National and key Regional On-Premise accounts
    (e.g. program execution including closing mandated distribution gaps).

Sales Planning

ï    Lead selling efforts in a key DMA for Constellation Brands Beer Division
ï    Develop plans and goals for all National Sales Priorities including volume, distribution, and seasonal applications for each Wholesaler.
ï    Conduct annual planning meetings with Wholesalers to develop yearly Constellation goals for Volume, Distribution and Investment.
ï    Identify market specific business development opportunities to grow Constellation share.
ï    In partnership with the area General Manager (GM) complete ABP/Trimester planning meetings at key Wholesalers that activate all National Sales Priorities including volume, distribution and CTF (Constellation Tactical Fund).
ï    Conduct market surveys in conjunction with key CBBD promotional windows.

Trimester Planning

ï    Develop Trimester plans in partnership with the area GM.
ï    Develop mutually agreed upon volume and distribution goals for Wholesalers under management.
ï    Determine programming, CTF and Wholesaler Tactical expenditure levels.

Pricing

ï    Identify market pricing opportunities and make recommendations including objectives for any change proposed.
ï    Notify and gain commitment from Wholesalers once price changes have been approved.
ï    Ensure target PTR/PTCís are executed.
ï    Evaluate new product market-level pricing, and then determine go-forward approach.

CTF Budgets

ï    Develop CTF investment strategy at the Wholesaler Level by Sales Priority for the upcoming year.
ï    Develop CTF Annual Business Plan for GM review.
ï    Communicate Business Plan to Wholesalers under management.
ï    Monitor budget compliance and communicate regularly with Wholesalers.
ï    Measure Constellation and Distributor investment program ROI and make fact-based recommendations to optimize sales results.

New Products

ï    In conjunction with Specialists, Key [PRIVATE IDENTIFIER REDACTED]

Volume Driving Initiatives

ï    Identify Wholesaler performance gaps to plan and recommend corrective actions.
ï    Develop the tactics and resource plan for initiatives to ensure effective execution and communicate plan of action to all stakeholders.
ï    Develop and execute best in class programs for brand building activities and our approach to Hispanic consumers.
ï    For volume initiatives that have already been launched, develop corrective actions where gaps exist and/or identify opportunities for improvement.
ï    For volume initiative options under consideration, analyze, prioritize and make recommendations for GM consideration.
ï    Gain commitment from the Wholesaler network to support the plan for each new initiative and ensure their cooperation throughout the timeframe for execution.

Supply Chain

ï    Work with Wholesalers, chain execution specialists, and other independent specialists to prioritize supply chain issues related to code date/aging inventory problems and make recommendations to GM on most appropriate course of action.

Complete other duties as assigned.

Qualifications:

ï    A Bachelorís degree or equivalent job experience (minimum of 5-8 years sales experience, including 2 years in consumer packaged goods industry).
ï    Experience in the beverage alcohol industry is preferred, but not required.
ï    Demonstrated ability to take initiative and be proactive in identifying customer issues, recommending solutions and executing effectively to ensure resolution.
ï    Proven track record in building effective relationships with customers and internal associates.
ï    Demonstrated diligence and ability to follow through on all commitments (internal and external stakeholders).
ï    Strong oral, written and interpersonal communication skills.
ï    Demonstrated ability to achieve performance goals with minimum direction and supervision.
ï    Demonstrated solid analytical and math skills.[PRIVATE IDENTIFIER REDACTED]
ï    Computer literacy with the ability to use software applications including Microsoft Word, Excel at advanced level, and PowerPoint, and e-mail programs such as Outlook.
ï    Knowledge of business software platforms such as Cognos 7/8 and sales reporting tools such as Retail Vision.
ï    Ability to travel a minimum of 30% of his/her working time, including ability to drive up to 5 hrs.

==================================
