Hello, My name is Hud Taylor; I am a 38-year-old male, Born and raised in “El Centro” California, a small farming town. Currently, I live in San Diego California with my recent fiancé and two little doggies. I recently quit my job as a Chemist after graduating Brewing School and moving to San Diego. 
As far as family life, I always had assumed that my childhood was a relatively normal one.  My father left my family when I was 2 years old, leaving my mother to raise 3 small children on her own.  Even though my father offered little support, my mother allowed us to see our father.  My father wasn’t the best father, but what kid doesn’t want a father in his life.  He was almost like a best friend. He had amazing people skills and was liked by everyone, obviously not my mother. Unfortunately, he literally taught me how to lie, cheat, and steal, which was confusing because my Mom taught me that there is nothing worse than a liar, cheater, or a thief.   
I also kept his drug use to myself as I was in denial.  That was up until I was around 20 years old and I went to visit him and…
How I dealt with that….
I took what my dad taught me and later in life learned that what my dad had taught me was very valuable, yet having a strong independent mother who showed me, not only through her strength but perseverance that embodying the qualities for a good person can help you in life and that you must strive for what you want or need.  For my mom, it was need before want.  She taught that I must always live life as a person who does not lie, cheat or steal. I found grey areas to justify my life lessons.  
I used to get through life and school being funny, charismatic and Bull Shitting my way though life. Then Real World came to light after High School.  A few years passed, my mother got me a job at the hospital that she worked at and while working there I finally found something that gave me passion.  I hated seeing these Doctors interact with patients in such a non-personal way.  This changed my life forever and gave me the strength to return to the thing that I was most scared of…school.  I, with all of these people skills, knew I could be such a better doctor…. The next stages of my life were probably the most difficult challenges I ever felt.  Entering college, I quickly realized I could not get by with my charm and wits.  I had no choice but to face my Learning Disabilities head on and my biggest fear. 
Working graveyard and going to school all day, my will power pushed through, taking more units a semester than any other student ever had, it was necessary because I had to take all the remedial courses I never took or passed in high school.  I then obtained my BS in biology and MS in Biochemistry from UCSD.  I then was accepted to medical school.  During my first summer break I found out my step dad was very ill.  He later died and I did not return to medical school.  Instead I stayed home to help my mother.  Having a strong background in Chemistry, I obtained a job as a Chemist where I worked for 6 years and met my fiancé.  
Why I can win….
I cannot only win but will also be a great contribution to the show due to my dynamic personality, persona and ability to get along with anyone.  Knowing when to push and when to pull… If a door does not open and you keep pushing, I just pull on the door.  
I don’t manipulate but maybe guide people to seeing every angle and aspect of a particular situation and more than often, I am able to convince people of their thoughts and view which coincidently correspond with mine, the natural non-emotional analytical approach.
Some Accolades
Civil Grand Juror / Sergeant-At-Arms – Superior Court of California, County Of Imperial
Certified California State Water Treatment & Distribution Operator (Grade T2)
University of California Extension, San Diego – Professional Certificate in Brewing
Master of Science, Biochemistry, UCSD
Bachelor of Science, Biology, UCSD
Vegetarian 22 years (Although, currently wearing Leather Sandals as I type this)

