This one is pretty bad. Basically I just wrote everything down and then put it together.
This one is very generic, all I am trying to convey is a little on what I did as an Associated Student Government member and more importantly what I (got/learned ect.) from it. (I OWE YOU SOOOOO BIG IT’S NOT EVENY FUNNY)

ASG Treasure/President

As an Associated Student Government (ASG) senator, I sought to improve campus life for the students.  I did this by promoting the development of current student services while creating new ones which supported students’ academic and community endeavors. I was very driven to accomplish these tasks, and advocated the interests of the student body to the administration and to student and civil groups both on and off campus. As treasurer, I supported the student body’s monetary policies, managed the distribution of their funds, and participated in weekly assembly meetings to discuss and initiate new projects.
After gaining experience in such a position, I was able to communicate effectively and work efficiently with others, seeing projects through from beginning to end. I developed strong leadership qualities and also a newfound respect for the democratic network that holds our society together.




























As an Associated Student Government (ASG) senator, I sought to improve campus life for the students.  I did this by promoting the development of current student services while creating new ones which supported students’ academic and community endeavors. I was very driven to accomplish these tasks, and advocated the interests of the student body to the administration and to student and civil groups both on and off campus. As treasurer, I supported the student body’s monetary policies, managed the distribution of their funds, and participated in weekly assembly meetings to discuss and initiate new projects.
After gaining experience in such a position, I was able to communicate effectively and work efficiently with others, seeing projects through from beginning to end. I developed strong leadership qualities and also a newfound respect for the democratic network that holds our society together.


Make sure his apostrophe after students’ stays there, bc students is plural and when you are making a plural possessive you put the apostrophe at the very end 
Wait but I thought you were senator? Where did treasurer come from?
I deleted the last sentence because it was redundant. I tried to change the sentence before that one to include something about democracy although I’m not sure if I got at what you were going for.
This is sort of short, you might want to include an example or something.  What was one of the student services that you created?  What did you DO while you were in this position? I know you’re trying to be concise but I think one or two examples could be an asset.


