Job Description
 
Laboratory Technician II, III, or Chemist
 
Job Number: 1800732
 
 
Description
 
This position is posted at multiple levels.
 
This position is responsible for safe, accurate, precise and efficient sampling, sample preparation and analysis of geothermal solids, geothermal fluids, geothermal gases and environmental samples including ground water, soil samples, air samples and surface water using spectroscopic techniques, chromatography techniques and classical wet chemistry techniques. Conducts data entry, graphs analytical data and calculated results and conducts descriptive interval statistics. Follow strict quality control procedures established through the QA/QC supervisor and adhere to California Environmental Protection Agency and United States Environmental Protection Agency's analytical procedures. Performs work with minimal supervision and direction from supervisor.

Primary Job Duties and Responsibilities (Essential Job Function)
Conduct sampling and perform analysis of geothermal solids, fluids and gases. Demonstrate proficiency in basic wet chemistry techniques (e.g. titrimetric, ion selective and gravimetric methods), Gas Chromatography (GC), Ion Chromatograph (IC), HPLC, and Inductively Coupled Plasma Optical Emissions Spectroscopy (ICP-OES), Inductively Coupled Plasma Mas Spectroscopy (ICP-MS), X-Ray Fluorescence Spectroscopy (XRF). (50%) 

Prepare standards and quality control solutions and perform calculations involving dilutions, normality, molarity and stoichiometry. (5%) 

Ensure that analytical results are accurate and precise through the effective use of quality assurance and quality control protocols. Apply statistical concepts to control the quality of analytical performance. Understand and construct report results to appropriate personnel in a timely manner. (10%)

Perform data entry, interval statistical analysis and calculations. Build and execute formulas and generate charts in spreadsheet applications. Perform data entry and recovery using the Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS). (10%)

Train laboratory and operations personnel in analytical procedures and data reporting. (5%)

Write standard operating procedures. (5%)

Perform routine maintenance and standardization on laboratory equipment. Diagnose and perform minor repairs on laboratory instrumentation. (10%)

Perform additional responsibilities, including special projects, as requested or assigned. (5%)
 
Qualifications
 
Lab Tech I -
Must have a high school diploma or general education degree (GED) with one to three years of experience or related education in sample collection, sample preparation and analysis of liquids, gases and solids, or similar laboratory experience. Associate of Science degree in chemistry or other physical science with 0-1 year related experience highly desirable.
 
Lab Tech II -  
Associate of Science degree in chemistry or other physical science with at least 3 years of related experience in sampling and analysis of geothermal liquids, gases and solids, or similar laboratory experience. A minimum of four years of progressive, related work experience would be needed for candidates applying for this position who do not possess an associate’s degree.
 
Must have proficient computing skills, including the use of spreadsheets and word processors.
 
Lab Tech II - 
Demonstrated ability to effectively use basic wet chemistry techniques, gas chromatography, ion chromatography, optical emission spectroscopy and x-ray fluorescent spectroscopy. Strong computing skills, including the use of spreadsheet, word processor, database and information management software tools.
Must have effective oral and written communication skills with the ability to read, analyze and interpret documents such as safety rules, environmental permits, standard operating procedures, and operating and maintenance procedures. Must be capable of issuing routine reports.
 
Must be able to perform mathematical calculations used in the lab such as dilutions.  Ability to calculate figures and amounts such as proportions, percentages, area, circumference and volume and to apply simple concepts of algebra.
 
Effective ability to prioritize and handle multiple tasks and projects concurrently.
 
Must be able to evaluate analytical results and note trends in data.
 
Must have certificates in wastewater treatment or water quality technology if assigned to support potable water system.
 
 
 
Job: Science
Primary Location: CA-Calipatria
Organization: CalEnergy Generation
Schedule: Full time
Hiring Range: $54,200 - $91,500