Medical Imaging Aide

As a medical Imaging Aide, I provided safe and efficient transportation of patients, equipment, and supplies. I assisted doctors by positioning patients during exams. While providing medical services, I exercised professional judgment and maintained a demeanor complimentary to medical ethics. This job allowed me to achieve a plethora of knowledge regarding the inner workings of the medical field. I observed doctors in various departments and witnessed their [PERSON REDACTED] routines. I also observed the characteristics that high-quality doctors possessed. Working directly with patients and doctors I was able to explore first-hand the different fields of medicine. Although I enjoyed all of the departments, I became interested in the emergency room and pediatric units. Occasionally, when the x-ray department was slow, I would find myself assisting in the ER or comforting sick children. As I saw doctors helping others, I realized that I too wanted to help others in a similar manner. Working full time in a hospital for three years made me determined to become a physician. Even after witnessing the pros and cons of the profession, my dedication to the ultimate goal of being a doctor has not wavered.



I witnessed the pros and cons of the profession and with full knowledge that the cons would be difficult to overcome, This realistic appraisal allowed the pros to drive my motivation. However by understanding the cons of the profession, I will not be detracted from my enthusiasm toward the medical field.

 and the knowledge that the cons are such that they will temper but not detract from my enthusiasm.

I began to understand first hand what doctors do as they go day-to-day helping others.
I observed various departments and the doctors associated with those departments as well as and qualities of what makes a high-quality doctor.

I observed various types of doctors as well as their [PERSON REDACTED] lives associated with their professions.

I witnessed the pros and cons of the profession. The negatives were unable to waiver my dedication to my ultimate goal.



, through this time I experienced the rewarding aspects a doctor is entitled to, but also the negative impacts associated with the responsibilities. I viewed the pros and cons and it has taught me that the job is not always as glamorous as it may appear to be but also requires struggles, responsibilities,...?


Combined with my love for learning and my true intellectual curiosity about medicine in particular has gave me a strong desire to help others in the way a doctor can do.

health care services to patients by, applied techniques for
I provided appropriate patient care and recognized patient conditions essential for successful completion of procedures.
