Masters Research in Organic Chemistry, Education in Biology, Currently working as an Analytical/Inorganic Chemist and of course an avid chef, craft brewer, and other random household science fun stuff...

-LIMS (Laboratory Information Management System) Administrator
--Laboratory Safety Officer & Safety Committee Member at CalEnergy (3 Years)


Investigated areas of government to determine if it can function better, save money, reduce staffing, and generally examine the way governments conduct business, particularly with respect to any evidence of malfeasance, misappropriation
or mismanagement.

By law a Grand Jury has three distinct functions; indictments, accusations
and investigation. Indictment is the act of bringing criminal charges against
a person. Accusation is the act of bringing charges against an official of
government or of a public agency, which may result in removal from office.
By far the most frequently exercised function is that of Civil Investigation
known as the “watch dog” function.

The primary function of the Imperial County Civil Grand Jury is to

Investigate the operation of city and county governments, as well as tax
supported agencies and districts created by state law. Formed Committees to study citizen complaints and visited various county and city facilities.

The Grand Jury may select additional areas for review.

At the end of the year, the Civil Graublishes its findings and
recommendations in a report, which is distributed to public officials,
libraries, the media, and the public. Agencies or departments and their
governing bodies which are the subject of investigations are required to
comment on the findings and recommendations contained in the report
within 60 to 90 days as specified in Section 933(c) of the California Penal
Code. Section 904.6 of the Penal Code provides for the empanelment of one
additional Grand Jury at any time. In Imperial County, this additional Grand
Jury is usually impaneled to hear criminal complaints, although by law it is
not restricted to just criminal matters


I have a favor to ask. I am currently exploring other opportunities and searching for a position that can utilize my skills as well as expand my knowledge. If you here of anything that might fit my needs, I would really appreciate it.

Thank you very much,

Hudson
