Jenny,

The lab is not currently a suitable environment for work to be performed in for an extended time period. It is especially difficult for those of us who spend a lot of time on the computer particularly on tasks that don’t directly have anything to do with being physically present in the lab. With the inadequacy of the current AC/ventilation system and the obvious available spaces which are under-utilized in our lab/building, it does not make sense why the majority of the staff in the department must suffer and be forced to work in this unsatisfactory environment. It does not make sense to devote an entire office space to store a few samples in a storage room and a bunch of supplies in another.  Wouldn’t it make more sense to allow us to use these areas more conducive to performing computer work and place the samples/supplies in the lab environment where it doesn’t matter if they are exposed to greater heat and humidity? Myself and others in our department have expressed this concern to you only to receive a response indicating an unknown long-term possibility of the solution being resolved. 

With your limited time spent in the lab you may not fully understand what it is like to work in the lab for extended time periods.  I am merely trying to help you understand an ongoing issue which continues to be unresolved when there are apparent solutions to those of us enduring the poor conditions. 

If you do not have the time to address possible resolutions, others and myself have many short-term ideas for solutions to rectify this issue.

I am suggesting that at least for the short-term, while the weather is still very hot and humid and the AC system is underperforming, that the staff be allowed to have access to these more suitable areas.   It would most likely result in increased productivity and efficiency in various ongoing projects and tasks, as we would be able to work longer without having to take a break every 15 – 20 minutes due to the unbearable, uncomfortable environment we are currently working in.  


