•Perform Certified analysis on analytical instruments (XRF, ICP-OES, GC, CVAAS, GFAA, AA Spectrometer) for desired elemental analysis.
•Knowledgeable in training and implementation of Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS).
•Perform radiological moisture reading for Desert Valley Company regulatory compliance requirements.
•Conduct proper in-lab training for new personnel on instrumentation and procedures in the laboratory.
•Knowledge in EPA procedures in order to create, improve and implement necessary changes from standard operating procedures (SOPs) based on field of training .
•Instrumental in the certification and recertification analytical Laboratory under Cal ELAP.
•Understand both process and environmental aspect for geothermal plants.

——
Chemist
CalEnergy
2012 – Present (3 years)
Chemist
CalEnergy Operating Corporation
January 2011 – Present (4 years 10 months)calipat
Analysis of geothermal solids, geothermal fluids, geothermal gases and environmental samples including ground water, soil samples, air samples and surface water using spectroscopic techniques and chromatography techniques. Conducts data entry, graphs analytical data and calculated results and conducts descriptive interval statistics. Experience with: ICP-OES, ICP-MS, GC, IC, HPLC, AA, and X-ray fluorescence spectrometer. LIMS Administrator.
—

ANALYTICAL SERVICES LABORATORY MANAGER
CALENERGY OPERATING CORPORATION
December 2007 – April 2010 (2 years 5 months)
Directed California-certified Analytical Services Laboratory for geothermal power plant.
Fully accountable for data collection, analysis and environmental reporting as required by management and state and local regulatory authorities. Managed a 10-member technical services team including 3 supervisors. Worked with other technical staff members to develop solutions to facility problems as they arose. Maintained an open-door policy and a management style that encouraged input and independent decision making.  KEY CONTRIBUTIONS: *** Initiated and managed chemical trials with vendors to find alternatives for the facility. Demonstrated potential cost savings of using other suppliers to plant managers. *** Developed project that helped change Department of Toxic Substance Controls standards, establishing specific clean-up criteria by demonstrating high background levels of arsenic through sampling, analysis and statistical review. *** Maintained State of California accreditation for three years running; commended for preparation, excellence and professional standards as demonstrated during onsite audit. *** Used proactive approach in demonstrating benefits of the lab that helped departments across the power plant understand its significance to successful operations. *** Worked with Environmental Department to raise the company’s image with State and Local authorities through close attention to environmental issues and responsiveness to their requests and directives.

——
Acted as Chairman for safety committee.
Organized and headed up group for in house safety concerns through employee involvement and contribution to build a safer workplace

John “Hudson” Taylor
Chemist/LSO/LIMS Admin
CalEnergy Operating Corporation/
Berkshire Hathaway Energy
[STREET REDACTED]Calipatria, [STATEZIP REDACTED]
Phone: [PHONE REDACTED]
Cell: [PHONE REDACTED]
[EMAIL REDACTED]

f
Analysis of geothermal solids, geothermal fluids, geothermal gases and environmental samples including ground water, soil samples, air samples and surface water using spectroscopic techniques and chromatography techniques. Conducts data entry, graphs analytical data and calculated results and conducts descriptive interval statistics. Experience with: ICP-OES, ICP-MS, GC, IC, HPLC, AA, and X-ray fluorescence spectrometer. LIMS Administrator.

*As the Laboratory Safety Officer (LSO), I facilitated the implementation of the Chemical Hygiene Plan, provided guidance on laboratory safety compliance and technical subjects and lead [PERSON REDACTED] “Safety Tailgate Meetings”
*As a Safety Committee member I assisted in establishing a safe work environment by collaborating with the Health & Safety Department (H&S), faculty and lab personnel. As the Safety Committee Chairperson I assumed extra responsibilities of leading the meetings, preparing an agenda and ensuring that the committee carries out its function to Promote and maintain the interest of employees in health and safety issues.

—
 As a Khemia software administrator I integrated the new LIMS system into the lab: Generating efficient and accurate data exportation, Integrated paper log books to Electronic Log Books, designing a functional system for the use at Reg1 Lab.

: I finalized the Omega 11 LIMS configuration and trained all the technicians and chemists to use the software for their [PERSON REDACTED] tasks, as well as providing advanced training to the LIMS Administrator back up.

Configured and integrated the software to support the evolving business needs of the company pertaining to laboratory data.


A well presented, highly personable and efficient communicator with a vey dynamic backgrond with an ability to work independently and in a changing and multi-tasking environment. Having a strong customer service orientation and delivery focus and a active commitment to continuous improvement and quality standards. Excellent communication skills and comfortable working in a fast paced, hands-on, growth orientated work environment.
Honestly, I am looking for a position that can utilize my greatest ability, communicating with people, and using my “learend” knowledge of science to work efficiently and acuratly as well as incorporating my passion for beeroffers variety and the opportunity to develop both personally and professionally.

Skilled Masters level synthetic/Analytic chemist possessing leadership and scientific proficiency in the inspections, investigations, and evaluations of moderately complex operations and facilities for the enforcement of environmental and/or employee health and safety provisions of federal, state, and local laws, codes, and regulations.
Seeking company position that will utilize these talents within an interactive, team-oriented environment and provide opportunities that utilize my abilities to analyze problems, identify alternative solutions, project consequences of proposed actions, and implement recommendations in support of goals.


design, synthesis, purification, characterization, and evaluation of highly functionalized small molecules as selective enzyme inhibitors.

‪‪Patriot‬ ‪Environmental‬‬——————

ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY SPECIALIST
General Statement of Duties
This employee performs a variety of activities as they relate to the environmental and/or employee safety aspects of various City programs.
 inspections, investigations, and evaluations of moderately complex operations and facilities for the enforcement of environmental and/or employee health and safety provisions of federal, state, and local laws, codes, and regulations.

Performs related duties as required.
——Ability to:
Recommend and implement goals, policies, and procedures for providing effective and efficient environmental or health and safety practice within assigned departments.
Prepare clear and concise analytical and statistical reports.
Inspect moderately complex city facilities, equipment, materials, and employee work practices to determine unsafe conditions or environmental problems
Analyze problems, identify alternative solutions, project consequences of proposed actions, and implement recommendations in support of goals.
Interpret and apply federal, state, and local codes, laws, and regulations.
Communicate clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing.
Respond to requests and inquiries from the general public.
Work independently in the absence of supervision.
Understand and follow oral and written instructions.
Recognize hazards and respond with plausible solutions.
——
Conducts on-site inspections and investigations of moderately complex operations and facilities to ensure environmental or safety compliance; notifies departments of environmental or safety problems and monitors corrective action; evaluates needs for safety training and assists in training for assigned departments.
Participates as a member of environmental or safety audit teams performing assessments for safety enhancements, waste minimization, pollution prevention, energy efficiency, cost reductions, improvements in compliance status, and/or mitigation of adverse health/safety or environmental impacts.
Maintains, calibrates, and operates instrumentation and sampling equipment; evaluates employee exposures to chemical, physical, and environmental hazards; monitors environmental quality; responds and assists in resolution of employee health and safety hazards and environmental issues; and provides guidance to assigned departments.
Assists in the preparation of analytical and statistical reports on operations and activities; analyzes reports and provides recommendations; provides input for development of written policies and procedures related to health, safety, and environmental programs; assists in the composition and distribution of internal and other documents as requested by the supervisor; Recommends and assists in the procurement of health and safety equipment to assigned departments.
Establishes and maintains cooperative working relationships with those contacted in the course of work, including outside agencies and the general public.
Interprets and applies federal, state, and local health and safety and/or environmental codes, rules, and regulations to moderately complex operations and facilities in assigned departments.
Participates on a variety of boards and committees; attends and participates in professional group meetings; stays abreast of new regulations, trends, and innovations in the field of environmental management and/or health and safety.
Assists those contacted in the course of duty in an effective, efficient, and professional manner.
If assigned to Health Department: maintain on-call status for hazardous material response team.

