For the past four years, I have performed research in the field of organic chemistry. I recently finished my thesis-based Masters at UCSD.  This experience has taught me valuable lessons: lessons that not only apply to research, but life itself.  I learned that when faced with a problem, teamwork and communication become essential for success.
The main questions that I pursued were in the drug design and drug synthesis for the development of substrate analogs and/or substrate inhibitors.  In order to pursue these questions, I needed to have a creative but logical mind and then have the initiative to put my plan into action.
The results did not always go as planned.  In many instances, reactions would fail to go to completion or not go at all and I would have to change the conditions of the reaction in order to drive it to completion.   In some cases, when a reaction did not work and changing the conditions of the reaction did not help, a totally new route of synthesis would need to be designed.   This new scheme would sometimes change a 6-step synthesis into a 9-step synthesis.  Knowing that things don’t always go as planned has been key to my success. It has helped me plan and design questions and pursue those questions more efficiently using all possible scenarios.
My hard work and dedication recently paid off when one of the projects I was working on led to a recent PLoS One publication. This project taught me the importance of protection group strategies and how 'so-called' standard methodologies such as asymmetric cyclopropanation are not so standard once you stray from the model substrate.  Regardless of final yield, I meticulously isolated and characterized the products.  Notably, the majority side product proved successful as the first substrate based inhibitor, which has been extremely helpful in determining the EGS reaction mechanism structurally.  The phenyl propanoid pathway is very important to my labs research, and these structures and mechanistic models are enabling the exploration to many other evolutionary related enzymes, many of which play a key role in natural product biosynthesis.
I feel that my long history of research has developed my mind in a way such that I am using it to its best ability in and out of lab.  Research has giving me the strength to pursue challenges and to see obstacles as opportunities.

.  I am currently working on my thesis/research in a lab at the Salk Institute.

I am a contributing author in



I think you share my feelings that these are critical experiences that all bench chemists must endure and master.

“using all possible scenarios” does not make sense here....reword, or delete.


