All Work/Activities

(Done) (7)

Student Support Service Program (SSSP)

This program was created for first generation, low-income, or disabled students. It used a holistic approach focusing on academic, cultural and social experiences at UCSD. Once involved in this program, I received academic support, developed supportive peer networks, participated in a variety of activities designed to enhance my success at UCSD, and increased my awareness of graduate and professional programs.
Through mentorship, academic programs, one-on-one counseling/advising, campus service referrals and social/cultural programming, I became more involved and succeeded in the campus’s academic community. In addition to assisting me through to graduation, SSSP helped inform me of and motivate me to utilize services that would enhance my preparation for medical school admission. I was able to gain a sense of confidence, achievement, and leadership.

Valley convalescent center

I Coordinated and planned social events for the residents of this center, took blood pressures, changed and cleaned beds, helped feed and change clothes for patients, served food, read and provided companionship and support.
I developed strong interpersonal and leadership skills interacting with nurses, doctors and patients while learning proper bedside manner and how to address patients on a personal level.

Undergraduate Independent Research (Organic chemistry)

I established the fundamental scientific knowledge and skills required to carry out organic synthesis, which included the design, synthesis, purification and characterization of novel chemical entities. Through my persistent efforts, I improved my problem solving skills by using a methodical and analytical approach while gaining the ability to make quick decisions during a fast-paced or unpredictable experiment. This experience helped me become independent and more confident in my scientific reasoning. I am convinced that the skills learned through my research experiences will be crucial to my future success as a physician.

Undergraduate Independent Research (Biochemistry)

I studied the role of vitamin C in glucose metabolism within rabbit skeletal muscle. In detail, I performed experiments that proved micro molar concentrations of vitamin C are capable of specifically inhibiting three purified muscle enzymes (adenylate kinase mAK, lactate dehydrogenase (mLDH), and 1-phosphofructokinase (mPFK-1)).
I gained experience working with laboratory equipment, conducting experiments, analyzing data and more importantly using inductive reasoning to solve problems.

Graduate Teaching Assistant

As a graduate Teaching Assistant (TA), I participated in the instruction, advising, and evaluation of undergraduates. I taught many laboratory classes, which gave me the opportunity to interact with each of my students individually. It was this one-on-one contact that allowed me to assess each student’s unique needs. For this reason, I felt partially responsible for both the success and failure of my students. I realized that some students were more successful when given an incentive to learn, others through one-on-one explanations, and still others when presented with challenging problems. As I gained experience as a TA, I began to understand the factors that contributed to each student’s performance, and I tuned my teaching style accordingly. My teaching experiences have both stimulated my interest in teaching and provided me with skills to teach effectively. It is these skills that I will continue to apply inside and outside of class.

Chemistry Club President

I was founder and President of the first chemistry club at my community college.
I designed the club in lieu of the fact that I had a deep passion for chemistry and wanted to spread this enthusiasm to the youth of the community. I hoped to pass on my interest and motivate [PERSON REDACTED] students to stay in school and pursue a college degree in the field of science. I pursued this goal by developing visual chemistry experiments that would make a lasting impression in a child’s mind. With these experiments in hand, I would then invite local classes spanning first through eighth grade to view the demonstrations. While I viewed the children’s faces as I performed the demonstrations, I noticed that they had the same look on their faces that I have had while watching a physician at work. I hope that I have made the same lasting impressions on these children as the physician has made on me, and that this has given them the drive that I have.

ASG Treasure/President

As an Associated Student Government (ASG) senator, I sought to improve campus life for the students. I did this by promoting the development of current student services while creating new ones, which supported students’ academic and community endeavors. I was very driven to accomplish these tasks, and advocated the interests of the student body to the administration and to student and civil groups both on and off campus. As treasurer, I supported the student body’s monetary policies, managed the distribution of their funds, and participated in weekly assembly meetings to discuss and initiate new projects.
After gaining experience in such a position, I was able to communicate effectively and work efficiently with others, seeing projects through from beginning to end. I developed strong leadership qualities and also a newfound respect for the democratic network that holds our society together.




(Needs Work) (8)

The Disabled Student Programs and Services Club

As I encountered educational challenges in college, I looked for resources to help accommodate my learning disabilities associated with ADHD. I found the Disabled Student Programs and Services (DSPS) a valuable resource to help me educationally. While belonging to the DSPS, I observed other students with disabilities and noticed that they, like me, seemed secluded. After observing this behavior, I decided to create a club that could integrate students of the program with each other and with non-disabled students. In this club, the disabled students were able to relate to one another because of the difficulties that are associated with being a disabled student. They were also able to relate to the non-disabled members because of the common difficulties that they faced in achieving academic success. These common feelings are what united us, and what defined the ultimate success of my club. Creating this club reflected my passion to help others, which is the same emotion that drives my motivation to practice medicine.

Medical Imaging Aide

As a medical Imaging Aide, I provided safe and efficient transportation of patients, equipment, and supplies. I assisted doctors by positioning patients during exams. While providing medical services, I exercised professional judgment and maintained a demeanor complimentary to medical ethics. This job allowed me to achieve a plethora of knowledge regarding the inner workings of the medical field. I observed doctors in various departments and witnessed their [PERSON REDACTED] routines. I also observed the characteristics that high-quality doctors possessed. Working directly with patients and doctors I was able to explore first-hand the different fields of medicine. Although I enjoyed all of the departments, I became interested in the emergency room and pediatric units. Occasionally, when the x-ray department was slow, I would find myself assisting in the ER or comforting sick children. As I saw doctors helping others, I realized that I too wanted to help others in a similar manner. Working full time in a hospital for three years made me determined to become a physician. Even after witnessing the pros and cons of the profession, my dedication to the ultimate goal of being a doctor has not wavered.

Personal Business

I have always been very curious about the inner workings of a business and felt that the best way to fully experience it was to start my own. I founded a small business a few years back. I sold and installed off road parts and accessories. The primary goal of the business was not to earn a great deal of money, but instead to offer products and services below retail price so that low-income people like me could afford them. With my objective intact, I satisfied many customers while accumulating a foundation of knowledge regarding how an honest business should be ran.
In order to succeed, I needed to have the desire to unlock my potential and put my ideas and beliefs into action. I stayed committed to putting in the hard work necessary to build a business while maintaining a positive mental attitude towards my life. Being positive has allowed me to view obstacles as opportunities and to free my mind of negativity and disappointment so that it is able to dream, imagine, develop and expand.
The qualities I have acquired throughout this experience are valuable and I anticipate using them as a medical student and as a physician.

University link Medical Science Program

This four-week summer residential program was designed for premedical and allied health community college students from educationally or financially disadvantaged backgrounds that were interested in pursuing a career in medicine. The specific purpose of this program was to increase their preparation as well as the understanding of population-based workforce needs. In addition, the program wanted to recruit and retain medical and allied health students who were committed to serving underserved populations.
I shadowed doctors, attended [PERSON REDACTED] lectures on health disparities among ethnic minority groups, and presented a research presentation on breast cancer. I learned study skills and standardized test-taking strategies. I also gathered information and attended counseling regarding opportunities in basic science, clinical or public health research as projects or careers. By offering lectures on health sciences, minority health, and culturally competent medicine, this program helped strengthen my desires to become a physician and work in underserved areas.

Graduate Student Researcher (needs to be shortened, but it’s so “Oh” good)

My graduate research is a thesis-based Masters of Science degree through the department of biological studies at UCSD.
I am currently working on my thesis/research in a lab at the Salk Institute. Throughout both my undergraduate and graduate years, I have performed research in the field of organic chemistry, which has encompassed the synthesis of natural products, small molecules, and relevant medicinal compounds. I have worked vigorously in the lab and have pursued the synthesis of several compounds that are thought to be promising drug candidates. As I realized the potential and applicability of my work, it drove me to work harder and longer; throughout this time, I ran into many obstacles. These obstacles forced me to either attempt a new route to the end product or to improve upon the current methodology. It was through this struggle that I was able to use my scientific knowledge/background and logical reasoning to decipher a solution to each problem that I encountered. Once I started working in the lab, I began to directly utilize information that I had learned in a class or from books in a way that I hadn’t done before. As a result, I was able to resolve situations by directly applying this knowledge to an experimental problem, such as a chemical reaction not reaching completion. I have really valued my laboratory experience because it has not only given me a meaningful perspective on the chemical complexity of drugs and their application, but has also helped me develop problem solving skills to overcome obstacles in any future research experiences that I may participate in.

The California Department of Rehabilitation (DOR)

The California Department of Rehabilitation (DOR) assists Californians with disabilities in obtaining and retaining employment in order to maximize their ability to live independently amongst their communities. DOR was designated by the Office of the Governor to serve as the lead state agency in California’s efforts to implement the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) in state government.
As a client, the DOR has served as a centralized resource to help me meet my career and educational goals. The department has provided me with counseling, guidance, diagnosis and treatment of mental impairments. It has also referred and subsequently assisted me with services from other agencies. The DOR has also helped me financially in the form of transportation and rehabilitation assistive technology, and has also aided with the cost of my education.
Being involved in this program has shown me that even with a disability, your dreams and goals are still obtainable and sometimes all that is needed is a helping hand to guide you on your way. Perseverance

University link Medical Science Program / Mentor

After participating in the University Link Medical Science Program at UCSD, I returned that following summer and every summer thereafter to serve as a mentor for the new disadvantaged students (in the program) pursuing a health professional career. As a mentor, I gave guidance to help the students on reaching their maximum potential to pursue a career in health care, assisted in their health disparity research posters, provided pre-medical advising and increased their understanding of population-based workforce needs.
Mentoring enabled me to practice my social and communication skills by interacting with students as well as re-instilling into me the specific aims of the program, reminding me of my goal to help increase both the care and quality of health care in a medically underserved community.


NPAG

Natural Products Affinity Group (NPAG) is a monthly gathering of local researchers in the San Diego area interested in the chemistry and/or biochemistry of naturally occurring compounds or the biology of living systems from which they are obtained. NPAG works in two ways, one by allowing researchers to collaborate their findings and seek ways of improving the quality of their research and secondly, by inviting researchers to present their latest information on natural product research.
NPAG has provided me with collaboration and continuing education in my field of research. This ongoing learning has kept me up to date with any current information relating to my research as well as the opportunity to collaborate and share ideas that may contribute to the overall benefit of Natural product research.
My interest in continuing education and my love for knowledge will be most useful as a physician, as it will not only benefit me but also the quality of health care I provide.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Disadvantaged Status

I believe that I have experienced many disadvantages have been severely detrimental with regard to the pursuit of my academic goals. As a child, I faced a great deal of adversity. When I was two years old, my father left my family. Due to his ongoing drug addictions, my mother did not receive child support from him and was forced to work two full time jobs, receiving support from State and Federal Assistance Programs.  As a result, my mother was too busy to help me with my schoolwork or show much interest in positive or negative academic performance. More importantly, she was unable to provide accommodations when I was diagnosed with ADHD in second grade. My family could not afford to send me to a good school, and therefore my academic environment was not any more inspiring than the atmosphere in my home. I was forced to get a job, leaving me with less time to acquire the fundamental skills needed to succeed in high school or pursue a future career in medicine. I grew up in Imperial County, which is a remote, agriculturally based county in Southern California. There was a deficiency of medical services in this region, and I remember often traveling long distances to receive health care. For this reason, I have a strong desire to provide health care for my community or another underserved town.
