---Survivor---
What Makes a Great Video?

Here are some tips to think about when making your video. Videos should be no longer than 3 minutes in length.

Be yourself! We want to get to know who you are as a person. How will your life experience help you win the game? How will you interact with the other tribe members? When describing yourself, remember to cite real life examples. We love a good story!

Making a casting video is not about putting together the best skit or wearing the wackiest costumes. We’re looking for real people and we want to see the real you. 

If you come from a unique region or area of the country, talk about where you’re from, how it’s a part of your personality, or how it may help you do well on Survivor. If you have an interesting job, talk about your job and how those skills may help you win the show.

Please show us YOUR WORLD, use pictures, take us on a tour, have fun with this!!

---------
Here are some tips to think about when making your video. Videos should be no longer than 3 minutes in length.

Be yourself! We want to get to know who you are as a person. How will your life experience help you win Big Brother? How will you interact with the other houseguests? When describing yourself, remember to cite real life examples. We love a good story!

Making a casting video is not about putting together the best skit or wearing the wackiest costumes. We’re looking for real people and we want to see the real you. 

If you come from a unique region or area of the country, talk about where you’re from, how it’s a part of your personality, or how it may help you do well on Big Brother. If you have an interesting job, talk about your job and how those skills may help you win the show.
Lighting Tips
Audio Tips
Camera Tips
1.If shooting indoors, make sure to shoot in a well lit room with lights in front of you to light your face.
2.Avoid shooting in front of a window with bright sunlight streaming in. This will cause silhouetting.
3.When shooting outdoors, avoid shooting with the sun directly behind you. This will also cause silhouetting.
4.Shoot during the day so we can see you instead of trying to see you in the dark.
--------
1.Speak loudly and clearly.
2.Find a relatively quiet area to shoot your video so ambient noises won’t distract from what you’re saying.
3.If shooting indoors, avoid shooting in loud and crowded rooms where your voice will be drowned out by other people.
4.If shooting outdoors, avoid shooting in loud areas and when it’s windy. The wind will distort the microphone.
===
Do you sleep, eat, and breathe Big Brother so much that you want to be the next most-hated houseguest on the next season? Well you’re not alone, because right now there are probably thousands of people that think they have what it takes to make it to the top 16 people to enter the Big Brother 17 house. So what do you have to do to stand out and actually get on Big Brother ? Well, it’s not just filling out the application form, smiling for a photo, and saying how much you love the show.

This season of Big Brother has so many different types of personalities. There’s Frankie, the loud, already sort of famous type. There is Zach, the “villain” turned unexpected fan favorite. And then there is Caleb, the “Beast Mode Cowboy,” and Donny, the simple groundskeeper with a heart of gold. Then there are a few houseguests where you can’t help but think, “Wow, how did these people get on this show? They are so boring.” Well what probably happened was that they were exciting in the audition process and then completely flat-lined once they were actually on the show (I’m looking at you Victoria. I see how you act in the Diary Room, and then how you're just there in the house). So if you're auditioning and plan to be super boring once you enter the Big Brother house, please save us from another boring season and just don't.

So what should you know about being a standout in the audition process? Big Brother: Canada houseguest Liza Stinton, and Big Brother 15 houseguest, McCrae Oslon made a video full of tips on how to get the attention of producers.
--
Own what type of person you are

If you’re loud and obnoxious, don’t sell yourself as the silent killer type of houseguest. As McCrae says, if you’re a pizza boy, own it. Make that your “thing.”

Don’t compare yourself to past houseguests

No one wants to watch another “Amanda Zuckerman,” they want to watch someone new. If you say, “I am the next Zach Rance,” then you will probably not get far in the selection process.

Make a good video

Don’t yell, don’t whisper.

First impressions count

When making the audition video, you need to be able to sell yourself to those watching within the first five seconds. If you are really dull for the first few minutes, then become Ms. Animated towards the end, you’re video was probably already passed up.

Show, don’t tell

The same rule that you learned in that one creative writing class you took in college also applies to your application for Big Brother. Don’t say you’re a really athletic person; show them you’re a really athletic person. Don’t say you’re really funny — because nothing is less funny than the line “I am really funny” — show them you’re a comedian.
--------
Don’t try to act like a past Houseguest. Vets advise being yourself is the best way to get cast on “Big Brother.” Pictured: Season 16 winner Derrick Levasseur pays a visit to the Season 19 cast. Photo: CBS
If you prefer attending an open casting call over sending in a video, “Big Brother” casting agents want to meet the real you, not the person you think they want to see.
“Be the next you,” Liza Stinton, a “BB” Canada alum, advised in a YouTube video alongside Season 15 star McCrae Olson. “Just be yourself.”
Still, “BB” veteran Matt Hoffman says you need to have a character for yourself in mind to play off of. “You need to have a story or a ‘hook.’ Some one thing that makes you stand out in an interesting one-sentence description,” he told Big Brother Network. “If your description is ‘That’s the guy in the plain shirt who works at his miserable cubicle job 50 hours a week, but is a HUGE fan of the show,’ then you can bank on not getting called back.”
Season 10 winner Dan Gheesling said being passionate is also important to being chosen.
Passion is something that will help you connect with a lot of people, including the casting producers. If you are really passionate about getting on reality TV they will be able to see it. If you want to get on reality TV just to be famous they will also see that (not a great idea). For someone trying to get on reality TV, they have to define what is driving them to apply – this is what I call the why-factor.
----
Don’t be too cool for casting calls! “Big Brother” vets say showing your face and sending in an audition video is the best way to get seen by producers. Pictured: Season 19 stars Paul Abrahamian, Jason Dent, Kevin Schlehuber and Elena Davies rock shades. Photo: CBS
You can send in an audition tape or go to an open casting call, but Liz and Julia Nolan suggest doing both.
“It’s just a better way to make sure producers will see your face,” Julia said in a video for their YouTube channel. “And know that you’re serious and that you really want it,” Liz added. Julia said their season winner, Steve Moses, also did this in order to secure his spot on the show.
“A little goes a long way,” Liz said.
--
Don’t know what HOH and Power of Veto mean? You will want to brush up on your “BB” terminology before you try out. Pictured: Season 19 stars Christmas Abbott and Ramses Soto. Photo: CBS
Julia and Liz have claimed that casting directors prefer candidates who are familiar with the show’s lingo. Julia said they were asked in every audition who their favorite player was, so, be prepared!
Winner Ian Terry also said it was his knowledge of the series that earned him credit with producers. “I really think they like people who know the game and have a passion for the game,” he told Nola.com in 2013. “The fact that I was fan of the game definitely helped.”
Additionally, a handout reportedly given to finalists ahead of Season 13 revealed that they should “know the show IN AND OUT” and noting that contestants “MUST have seen at least one FULL season.”
Be Flexible
Signing up for “Big Brother” is simple, but once you get past a certain stage in the audition process, you’ll have to be flexible with your time. Season 18 star Natalie Negrotti told In Touch she initially found time for the show’s application on the evenings and during work breaks, but eventually had to resign from her full-time position in order to be on the show.
“Unfortunately, certain jobs like mine don’t allow you to take time off of work for that long and I had to resign my position,” she said. “It was a huge gamble for me because if I didn’t make it to jury and only lasted one day or one week in the house — I had just quit my job! I luckily made it through the whole process to jury and got to cast a vote at finale.”
Be Mentally Prepared
A good video, a fun personality and a flexible schedule isn’t the only thing that will get you cast. After getting past the preliminary process potential contestants are flown to Los Angeles for additional testing. Reality Blurred spoke to an unidentified Season 13 finalist in 2011 who revealed they were subjected to medical, psychological, written and IQ tests, as well as additional sit-downs with producers.
--
If you want to meet Julie Chen as part of the “Big Brother” cast, it may take several auditions to catch the attention of producers. Photo: CBS
“Keep on trying, don’t give up if you don’t make that season. Maybe you just weren’t right for the aesthetic of that season,” Liz explained to potential future “BB” stars on her channel.
Dan Gheesling, who was rejected several times before being cast, shared a similar sentiment, but warned against masking the same mistakes for different seasons.
“My advice to someone who has had some success in the casting process is to keep applying. Each audition there after you have to step it up or change something about your approach,” he said. “If you continue to do the same thing time in and time out, you can’t really expect different results.”
---
If you are having any difficulties in submitting your video:
Please make sure the video is no larger than 500MB in size.
Please make sure the video is one of the acceptable formats, including AVI, WMV, MP4; MKV, M4V, FLV, MOV, MPG or MPEG.
If you continue to experience problems, please try an alternative browser on the same device, or use a different device (laptop, tablet or mobile) to complete your application.  No need to register again, just sign in using the email and password you used to register.
---
From bb--- You should try to get the essence of your personality across in your video and what it is about you that would make the perfect housemate.  There are no rules about what you should include but you’ve only got one chance to show us  who you are and what you are about – so make it count. Please note there should be no copyrighted music
-----
If you’ve ever wanted to be on a reality show, Tuesday could be a big night for you as “Big Brother” casting agents will be at Badlands Pawn from 6 to 8 pm. As a longtime “Big Brother” fan, blogger and podcast host, I have a few tips for those interested in trying out.

You’ll need a thick skin for what happens after the season is over. Even the most popular contestant has haters, and the types of people who will sit and watch Internet videos are not shy about expressing their opinions. If you make the show, I would also encourage family members to just stay off Facebook and Twitter for the entire summer.

Before we get to that, however, here are a couple of disclaimers. Unlike all other reality shows, “Big Brother’s” cameras and microphones are never turned off. There are online viewers at any time of the day and night. Some viewers are so obsessed that they’ll even keep the “live feeds” on while the entire house is sleeping just in case somebody crawls out of bed for a snack or bathroom break. If you’re concerned about your grandmother hearing you swear or accidental flashes of skin, this might not be the show for you.

Still want to audition? The most important tip I can give is to be yourself. Keep in mind that casting agents and producers have viewed hundreds of audition videos. Any attempt to try to fool them into believing you’re something you’re not will be immediately recognized.

Having said that, you do need to put your best foot forward. Obviously, you can’t mope around like you’re Morrissey’s biggest fan. While there are a number of “types” the show is looking for, a loner who lurks in the corner is not one of them. Don’t be shy or timid. Be cheerful and attentive. Be driven. Don’t be afraid to brag that you’re going to win.

This doesn’t mean you can’t be a “character.” Accentuate whatever quirks you do have. If you have a tendency to be snarky, showcase your sarcasm. If you’re an athlete, brag about your “guns.” Computer nerds should not be afraid to appear as geeks. As already mentioned, there’s a variety of character types the show is looking for. You’re not competing against the people you’re in line with at Badlands. You’re competing with those similar to you at other auditions.

One area that you shouldn’t be afraid to fib about is personal relationships. If you’re married or in a relationship, state that you’re willing to flirt to further your game. Single people should definitely say they’re open to a “showmance.” Producers and a good percentage of viewers enjoy a love story. Who knows? You might actually find love. After all, over the years “Big Brother” has somehow  resulted in more successful marriages than “The Bachelor.”

You also don’t have to be a “Big Brother” expert to try out. Every year, there are plenty of people cast who have never seen an episode, let alone viewed an online feed. If you are a fan, you will probably be asked about your favorite former cast members. My advice would be to shy away from the extremely popular characters such as Rachel Reilly, Janelle Pierzina or Dan Gheesling. Everybody mentions them, and naming somebody a bit more obscure might get you noticed.

At the end of the day, you should also be realistic about your chances. With so many people showing up at auditions or submitting videos, the odds are pretty slim you’ll be chosen. It’s not impossible, though, as every season includes a couple of people who are not from a major market. While neighboring states have seen a handful of residents make it, this year might be the time that we get a hometown hero.

Even if you have no desire to spend your summer in front of the camera, you might want to show up at this event if you are one who watches the show or the live feeds. There’s bound to be plenty of like-minded people there to share your likes and dislikes. You could end up hosting a chart-topping “Big Brother” podcast!

If you go

What: Auditions for “Big Brother”

When: 6 to 8 p.m. Tuesday

Where: Badlands Pawn, Gold & Jewelry, [STREET REDACTED]Bring: A copy of your driver’s license or state ID and a copy of a passport or [PRIVATE IDENTIFIER REDACTED]
