Carver 

Question 1: Please explain your reasons for applying to the UI Carver College of Medicine. We understand that you are probably applying to several medical schools. We are interested in learning why you included the Carver College of Medicine on your list of medical schools.

My motivation to apply to the UI Carver College of Medicine started four years ago when I first learned about the school and the positive effect it could have on my career as a physician.   I was first attracted to the history of the school, its involvement with the community, and the emphasis that it placed on public health care and health services. Coming from a small town, I have had to deal with problems affected by inadequate heath care.  As a result, I have continuously strived to influence the health care of society. Recently, I was attracted by the Community Health Outreach class provided by the school and believe participating in this would be an excellent way to incorporate my interest with underserved populations as well as my interest in medicine. 

What makes the UI Carver College of Medicine particularly attractive to me is what the school offers and how it encompasses this. I feel that being able to studying medicine while encompassing the diversity of society will lead me to becoming a physician who provides a wholeness approach to health care.  I feel that my education at UI Carver College of Medicine will prepare me to become the best physician I can be by assisting with my commitment to scientific research, quality health care and my passion to learn medicine with society in mind.  

Question 2: Please describe any unique personal characteristics you have that will contribute to the diversity of and bring educational benefits to the entering class.

My individual diversity that I would bring to make me a desirable candidate for admission to the Keck School of medicine are my motivation to succeed, dedication to reaching my full potential, passion for health care and my enthusiasm on life. As a child I was faced with a great deal of adversity and developing theses traits was a necessary requirement. I have had to apply these unique qualities in order to overcome many obstacles that I have been faced with in my path to a career in medicine. The disabilities that have challenged me allowed me to develop the abilities that I now possess to face any task head on, adding to my dynamic personality.    

The first most interesting example of my diversity was my courage and ability to enter into college after my below average performance in high school. The task of entering college after a 3-year gap allowed me to enter college as a mature and determined adult. A second interesting characteristic would be my success and achievements that followed my entrance into college. Unlike high school, I became involved in various clubs and organizations, which ultimately lead to my success. Another interesting facet to my education would be my thesis based Masters and the research that I have performed to help contribute to the field of science. Amongst the pursuit of these goals, I controlled my eternal fight with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, which was something that had overpowered me in the past and has greatly contributed to my diverse character.

Question 3: What else would you like the Admissions Committee to know about you? If you are a reapplicant to the Carver College of Medicine, please include how you have strengthened your application. If you are not in a degree-seeking program, please indicate what you will be doing from the time you complete this application to the start of medical school

I would like the Admission Committee know how I made my decision attend medical School.
After graduating from high school, I joined the workforce, working long and intense hours to help support my family.  It was during this time that I found myself wanting more; for the first time, I was concerned about my future.  My first step was to obtain a more meaningful job.  The medical field drew me in and I entered the field of radiology as a medical imaging aide.  I began to understand first hand what doctors do as they help others on a daily basis. I began to look up to their ability to help people and later realized that I, too, wanted to be able to help people.  Every day I came to work, my decision to go into medicine was strengthened. I would listen and speak to doctors in order to gain a deeper insight into their profession. The information provided by the doctors was not always on the positive side, but this only strengthens my desire to pursue medicine in the hopes that I can help make a change for the better.  My desire to practice medicine emerged while working directly with doctors and patients. Becoming a doctor will not only allow me to utilize my knowledge when taking care of patients but will also enable me to apply my technical and analytical skills to medicinal challenges.


University of Michigan 

B.  NON-ACADEMIC ACTIVITIES.   List up to six of your most valued recent non-academic activities (such as research, clinical experiences, community service, employment). Include information about hours per week and duration of involvement for each.

EXAMPLE: Fayette County Health Department. Nurse's aide for migrant worker program. 8 hrs/wk. 3 months.
El Centro Regional Medical Center. 

C.1  ESSAY.
Select one experience from your list in part B (Non-Academic Activities) and describe in a brief essay how it impacted on your decision to go into medicine.  Do not exceed 1500 characters (about 250 words).

After graduating from high school, I joined the workforce, working long and intense hours to help support my family.  It was during this time that I found myself wanting more; for the first time, I was concerned about my future.  My first step was to obtain a more meaningful job.  The medical field drew me in and I entered the field of radiology as a medical imaging aide.  I began to understand first hand what doctors do as they help others on a daily basis. I began to look up to their ability to help people and later realized that I, too, wanted to be able to help people.  Every day I came to work, my decision to go into medicine was strengthened. I would listen and speak to doctors in order to gain a deeper insight into their profession. The information provided by the doctors was not always on the positive side, but this only strengthens my desire to pursue medicine in the hopes that I can help make a change for the better.  My desire to practice medicine emerged while working directly with doctors and patients. Becoming a doctor will not only allow me to utilize my knowledge when taking care of patients but will also enable me to apply my technical and analytical skills to medicinal challenges.

C.2  ESSAY.
At the University of Michigan Medical School, we are committed to building a superb educational community with students of diverse talents, experiences, opinions, and backgrounds. What would you as an individual bring to our medical school community? Do not exceed 1500 characters (about 250 words).

My individual characteristics that I would bring to make me a desirable candidate for admission to the University of Michigan Medical School are my motivation to succeed, dedication to reaching my full potential, passion for health care and my enthusiasm on life. As a child I was faced with a great deal of adversity and developing theses traits was a necessary requirement. I have had to apply these traits in order to overcome many obstacles that I have been faced with in my path to a career in medicine. 

The first most interesting example of my character was my courage and ability to enter into college after my below average performance in high school. The task of entering college after a 3-year gap allowed me to enter college as a mature and determined adult. A second interesting characteristic would be my success and achievements that followed my entrance into college. Unlike high school, I became involved in various clubs and organizations, which ultimately lead to my success. Another interesting facet to my education would be my thesis based Masters and the research that I have performed to help contribute to the field of science. Amongst the pursuit of these goals, I controlled my eternal fight with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, which was something that had overpowered me in the past and has greatly contributed to my diverse character.


*Case Western
Essay
The Admissions Committee is interested in gaining insight into you as a person. Type or Copy and Paste a brief essay on a subject outside of medicine, which has been an area of great interest to you. Please limit your essay to 1 page (about 3,500 characters), and leave a blank line between paragraphs.

A subject of great interest to me would be my personal goal to assist the youth, from educationally and economically disadvantaged communities, break through barriers and attend college. Raised in such an environment, I know from personal experience the struggles and adversity they must conquer to reach such goals.  If it was not for my deep passion for medicine I may not have ever returned to school and obtained the education that I have today.  Unlike myself, most of my friends and family have not had the will power to return to school and have found themselves stuck within an educationally underserved community.  I believe that the need for education starts at young age. If a child’s is given the opportunity to learn and becomes interested in a subject, then he or she will overpower his or her struggles and pursue his or her goals.  With this belief in mind, I sought to make a difference in the children of my community. While I was attending community college I founded the first chemistry club. As president, I designed visual chemistry experiments and invited local classes spanning first through eighth grade to view the demonstrations.  My intentions behind these experiments were to grasp a child’s interest and show them that with an education you can do amazing things. 

As I transferred to UCSD, I was fortunate to join a program designed to help increase the number of students from educationally or financially disadvantaged backgrounds entering health professions.  I gained an array of knowledge about educational challenges that result from people raised in underrepresented/ underserved communities, but most importantly, I learned what could be done to improve this problem. After participating in the program, I returned every summer thereafter to serve as a mentor for the new disadvantaged students (in the program).  As a mentor, I had the opportunity to help the students reach their maximum potential and overcome their battles that often arose due to their disadvantaged backgrounds.
  
Growing up in a small rural town I experienced first hand the negative aspects of living in an educationally disadvantaged area and the impact it had on my education.  I seek to make a positive change in the lives of people like myself.  I look forward to see the day that all opportunities for an education are equal throughout society.     

Research Essay
If you have had experience doing research or other scholarly work, please describe your experience, including the question you pursued and how you approached it, your results and interpretation of the results, and any thoughts about what this experience meant to you. If you have no previous research experience, please indicate so in the essay box. Please limit your response to 1 page (about 3,500 characters), and leave a blank line between paragraphs.

For the past three years, I have performed research in the field of organic chemistry. 

I am currently in the process of finishing my Masters degree at UCSD.  I am currently working on my research in a lab at the Salk Institute.  This experience has taught me valuable lessons: lessons that not only apply to research, but life itself.  I learned that when faced with a problem, teamwork and communication become essential for success.

The main questions that I pursued were in the drug design and drug synthesis for the development of substrate analogs/inhibitors.  In order to pursue these questions, I needed to have a creative but logical mind and then have the initiative to put my plan into action.  

The results did not always go as planned.  In many instances, reactions would fail to go to completion or not go at all and I would have to change the conditions of the reaction in order to drive it to completion.   In some cases, when a reaction did not work and changing the conditions of the reaction did not help, a new route of synthesis would need to be designed.  Knowing that things don’t always go as planned has been key to my success. It has helped me plan and design questions and pursue those questions more efficiently using all possible scenarios. 

I feel that my history of research has developed my mind in a way such that I am using it to its best ability in and out of lab.  Research has giving me the strength to pursue challenges and to see obstacles as opportunities. 


Georgetown (packet)

Please submit a one-page essay, single-spaced, one side only, on an 8.5" x 11" sheet of white paper, with name, [PRIVATE IDENTIFIER REDACTED]

My motivation to apply to Georgetown University School of Medicine started four years ago when I first learned about the school and the positive effect it could have on my career as a physician.   I was first attracted to the history of the school, its involvement with the community, and the emphasis that it placed on public health care and health services. Coming from a small town, I have had to deal with problems affected by inadequate heath care.  As a result, I have continuously strived to influence the health care of society. Recently, I was attracted by the research opportunities provided by the school and believe that performing research at Georgetown would be an excellent way to incorporate my enthusiasm with both research and medicine into my future as a physician. 

What makes Georgetown University School of Medicine particularly attractive to me is what the school offers and how it encompasses this. I feel that being able to study medicine while encompassing ethical values will assist me in my development as a physician who provides a wholeness approach to health care.  I feel that my education at Georgetown will prepare me to become the best physician that I can be by assisting with my commitment to scientific research, quality health care and my whole-person approach to medicine.  



