Medical Imaging Aide 

As a medical Imaging Aide I provided health care services, applied techniques for safe and efficient transportation of patients, equipment and supplies. I assisted doctors and technologist by positioning patients during the performance of exams. Exercised professional judgment in performance of services and maintained a demeanor complimentary to medical ethics. Provided appropriate patient care and recognized patient conditions essential for successful completion of procedures.

This job allowed me to achieve a plethora of knowledge regarding the inner workings of the medical field, from the various departments, fields of doctors and qualities of what makes a high-quality doctor. Working directly with patients and doctors I was able to explore first hand the different fields of medicine that interested me. Although I enjoyed all departments I found keen interest in the ER and pediatrics units and at time would find myself assisting in the ER or trying to put a smile on a sick child in pediatrics when the x-ray department was slow.

I began to understand first hand what doctors do as they go day-by-day helping others. I began to look up to their ability to help people and it was here that I realized I, too, wanted to be able to help people in that way. Working full time in a hospital for three years has made me very determined to become a physician. I have seen the pluses and minuses that the profession entails. This realistic appraisal allows the “pluses” to add motivation and the knowledge that the “minuses” are such that they will temper but not detract from my enthusiasm. 

, through this time I experienced the rewarding aspects a doctor is entitled to, but also the negative impacts associated with the responsibilities. I viewed the pros and cons and it has taught me that the job is not always as glamorous as it may appear to be but also requires struggles, responsibilities,…?


Combined with my love for learning and my true intellectual curiosity about medicine in particular has gave me a strong desire to help others in the way a doctor can do.
