I was in the middle of a double shift at El Centro Regional Medical Center, helping perform a barium swallow on an elderly patient. As I returned her to her room, I noticed signs that her respiratory rate was decreasing and her chest was not rising as much. Within the next few seconds I saw no movement at all. I panicked as I scanned through the options in my mind before remembering that her chart had said that she was a Do Not Resuscitate (DNR) patient; I felt helpless as I hastily rolled her back to the room without doing anything. The woman's family was calmly waiting outside of the room, for they did not yet know the unfortunate outcome of a routine procedure. I avoided eye contact with the patient's family as I pushed the gurney into the room and subsequently called the nurse to inform her of the situation. She checked the woman's pulse and told me that she had passed away. As I left the room, the patient's family looked at me as if I was responsible for the death of their beloved relative. An unusual emotional feeling clouded my thoughts as I replayed the events in that hospital room. I had never experienced death in such an intimate form, and I was not only scared and shocked, but also upset. The only reason I had been working at the hospital was to help take care of my family and raise enough money to put my father through a drug rehabilitation program. What had I done to deserve this horrible experience of someone dying in my arms while her family watched with accusatory eyes? I desperately wanted to go home but my level of commitment to both my family and the job forced me to stay. My decision was one of the best of my life.
     Later that day, about 15 hours into my shift, I was called into the emergency room to help out with a [PERSON REDACTED] man that had been in a life threatening motorcycle accident. When I arrived, the patient was in cardiac arrest. As I started chest compressions, I felt his ribs crack. Although I remained composed, I was extremely upset, envisioning another death that I would be directly involved with. However, just a moment later, the ER doctor called me off, and the patient's heart began beating on its own. This experience was one of the first pivotal events that I encountered while working in the hospital. I was overwhelmed with gratification as I realized that I had helped save this man's life. Although this was an incredible feeling, I still felt as though the doctor had ultimately taken charge of the situation. It was at this point that I realized the significant responsibility that any doctor must carry. After participating in such an event, I was determined to become a doctor such that I could make these crucial decisions and continue to save people's lives. It was events similar to these that inspired me to become a physician. After I acquired a thorough perspective of a doctor's responsibilities and capabilities in both life and death situations, I became extremely motivated and passionate about starting school again to become a physician.
     My strong-willed commitment overpowered my high school failures, giving me the drive to control my interminable battle with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). This war was not easily won, and as I faced educational challenges in college, I found ways to mitigate the detrimental effects of my disorder. For example, I took advantage of the Disabled Student Program Service (DSPS), a valuable educational resource to help students with disabilities. As my class performance improved, I became more enthusiastic about participating in school activities. I joined the school senate and co-founded the Imperial Valley College chemistry club. I found that my involvement helped me focus on my studies.
     When I transferred from junior college to UCSD, I transitioned away from the medical field and experimented with different areas of academic research. At first, I started research in a biochemistry laboratory. However, after taking my first organic chemistry class, I was captivated by the idea of creating molecules that could help save people, and immediately sought out work in a synthetic lab. After starting work in a synthetic organic chemistry laboratory, I had the opportunity to make and design molecules that could significantly impact the advancement of medicine. While in the laboratory, I found myself behaving similarly to when I had worked in the hospital; I worked long hours, dedicating most of my time to research. I was always very driven while working in the lab. I liked to think about the potential of the molecules in my round bottom flask, knowing that they could help cure a disease that I had previously seen patients suffer from.
     My motivation to practice medicine emerged while working directly with doctors and patients. During this time, I was not only able to succeed despite my adversities but also developed a deep interest in patient care. Each time I watched the dramatic effects that a physician had on a patient in the hospital room, I would become overwhelmed with the passion to step into their shoes. Becoming a doctor will not only allow me to utilize knowledge that I have gained while working in the hospital, but will also enable me to apply my scientific reasoning to medicinal challenges.
