Hudson Taylor
San Diego, [STATEZIP REDACTED]
[EMAIL REDACTED]
[PHONE REDACTED]
Extensive hands-on experience in the practice of teaching chemistry and a solid grasp of its theories.
Comprehensive knowledge and understanding of the subject to create, execute, and analyze student
assessments. Outstanding ability to uphold and maintain high academic standards. Ability to work
closely and collaboratively with the school administration. Have the ability to communicate complex
information in a simple and entertaining manner.
Authorized to work in the US for any employer
Work Experience
Lead Chemist/CSO/LIMS Administrator/Safety Committee Chairperson
CalEnergy Operating Corporation - Calipatria, CA
2012 to 2017
Calipatria, CA
(10 geothermal facilities in California's Imperial Valley that have the capacity to produce up to 338
megawatts.)
Lead Chemist/CSO/LIMS Administrator/Safety Committee Chairperson
• Lead Chemist - Analysis of geothermal solids, fluids, gases and environmental samples including
ground water, soil samples, air samples and surface water using spectroscopic techniques and
chromatography techniques. Created laboratory SOP's and QC Programs.
• Chemical Safety Officer (CSO) -I facilitated the implementation of the Chemical Hygiene Plan,
provided guidance on laboratory safety compliance and technical subjects and lead [PERSON REDACTED] "Safety
Tailgate Meetings" Established a system for continuous enhancement of SOP's & QC Programs through
the use of in house safety concerns and employee involvement and contribution.
• Safety Committee Chairperson - Assisted in establishing a safe work environment by collaborating
with the Health & Safety Department (H&S) and faculty. As the Safety Committee Chairperson I
assumed extra responsibilities of leading meetings, preparing an agenda and ensuring that the
committee carries out its function to promote and maintain the interest of employees in health and
safety issues.
• LIMS (Laboratory Information Management System) Administrator - Configured and integrated the
software to support the evolving business needs of the company pertaining to laboratory data.
Graduate Teaching Assistant
UCSD, Department of Chemistry & Department of Biology - La Jolla, CA
2005 to 2008
Instruction, Advising and Evaluation of Undergraduates
• Instructed Laboratory Classes and Lectures in Microbiology, Inorganic and Organic Chemistry
courses.
• Created and graded quizzes, exams and lab reports.
• Set up and supervised lab experiments.

Masters Thesis Research
Salk Institute for Biological Studies - La Jolla, CA
2005 to 2008
Design and Synthesis of Small Organic Selective Substrate Enzyme Inhibitors

• Worked with Crystallographers to design possible functional substrate analogs and/or substrate
inhibitors.
• Contributed to projects targeting YCHB, EGS/IGS, HDAC's and FXR.
Owner
Go Taylor Motorsports - El Centro, CA
[STREET REDACTED]vehicle parts and accessories
• Organization of financials, inventory, schedules and production
• Maintained proper accounting of all sales
• Sustained a high level of customer care and satisfaction
Undergraduate Independent Research
UCSD, Department of Organic Chemistry - La Jolla, CA
2004 to 2005
Undergraduate Independent Research
Total Organic Synthesis of Natural Products

• Carried out the synthesis, purification and full characterization of various intermediate steps in the
total synthesis of complex organic molecules.
• Performed small-scale reactions and optimized conditions for large-scale syntheses.
Undergraduate Independent Research
UCSD, School of Medicine - La Jolla, CA
2003 to 2004
Studied the role of vitamin C in glucose metabolism within rabbit skeletal muscle

• Performed experiments that proved micro molar concentrations of vitamin C are capable of
specifically inhibiting three purified muscle enzymes.
• Gained experience working with laboratory equipment, conducting experiments, analyzing data and
more importantly using inductive reasoning to solve problems.
Education
Professional Certificate in Brewing in Brewing
University of California San Diego Extension - San Diego, CA
2014 to 2018
Master's in Biochemistry
University of California, San Diego - Salk Institute - La Jolla, CA
2005 to 2008

Bachelor's in Biology
University of California-San Diego - La Jolla, CA
2003 to 2005
Associate in Chemistry
Imperial Valley College - Imperial, CA
2001 to 2003
Skills
• Water Treatment: Certified California State Water Treatment Operator (Grade T2) Certified California
State Water Distribution Operator (Grade D2) Organic Chemistry: Design and multi-step synthesis,
purification, and characterization of highly functionalized organic molecules. NMR (1H, 13C, DEPT,
COSY; Varian 500MHz NMRS), Chromatography (flash, vacuum, TLC, prep TLC, and silica HPLC, chiral
HPLC, GC, Biotage SP4 automated flash chromatography systems), distillation, crystallization, GCMS
& LCMSn (Agilent), microwave assisted reactions (Biotage), scale-up, problem solving, and proficiency
with online databases and computer tools (Scifinder, Web of Science, Pubmed, Chemdraw, Word, Excel)
Analytical Chemistry: ICP-OES, ICP-MS, GC, IC, HPLC, AA, and XRF
Certifications and Licenses
Certified California State Water Treatment Operator (Grade T2)
January 2015 to Present
Certified California State Water Distribution Operator (Grade D2)
January 2015 to Present
Publications
Structure and Reaction Mechanism of Basil Eugenol Synthase
[URL REDACTED] IDENTIFIER REDACTED]
January 2007
[PERSON REDACTED] GV, [PERSON REDACTED] TJ, [PERSON REDACTED] ME, [PERSON REDACTED] T, Taylor JH, et al. (2007) Structure and Reaction Mechanism
of Basil Eugenol Synthase. PLoS ONE 2(10): e993. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.[PRIVATE IDENTIFIER REDACTED]
Additional Information
2015-2016 Civil Grand Juror / Sergeant-at-Arms - Superior Court Of California, County Of Imperial
2014 Guest Speaker - Imperial Valley College STEM club

2005-2009 La Jolla Natural Products Affinity Group [PRIVATE IDENTIFIER REDACTED]
2005 Student Support Services Program, Outstanding Achievement Award, UCSD
2003 & 2005 Deans Honors List, UCSD
2003-Present University Link Medical Science Program, Participant, Mentor, UCSD SOM

2001-2003 Chemistry Club, Founder and President, IVC
2001-2003 Associated Student Government Senator, Treasurer, IVC
2001-2003 Disabled Student programs & Services Club, Founder and President, IVC
2001-2003 Provost Honors, IVC
