Update on UWUA Local 197 Negotiations 







Willis, Patricia 
Mon 2/13/2017 2:28 PM


To:
Mansfield, Curtis; 
Bird, Stefan; 
Cc:
Hymas, Kathryn; 
Young, Larry; 
Schneider, Christopher; 
Gratias, Aaron; 
Taylor, John H; 


Curt,
 
That’s very interesting.  Jami is indeed the key player.  Chris and I engaged both Jami and Dave Lindsley in a sidebar conversation when it became clear that Jami was not supportive of an extension.  We expressed great disappointment in light of:  1) the union’s repeatedly stated desire for an extension which would address 659 parity, and 2) the company’s sincere willingness to listen and deliver.  We insisted they commit to an aggressive bargaining timetable to ensure timely resolution despite this turn of events.      
 
Jami seems to have a philosophical objection to extensions without any kind of back-and-forth interaction.  Although Dave Lindsley and his team seem genuinely pleased with the extension offer, they also appear to be taking Jami’s lead.  Unfortunately, this does not necessarily serve our employees well.  Nonetheless, we’re cautiously optimistic that we’ll work through this.      
 
Patty       






Mansfield, Curtis 
Sat 2/11/2017 8:32 AM


Patty,
 
I had an opportunity at the Thursday #659 PEET session to ask Dave how he thought the negotiations were going and the likelihood for an extension agreement. He indicated it was moving along and didn’t see any issues but I clearly sensed he was/will follow the strategy Jami directs. She seems to be the key figure, are you having any dialogue with her outside of the formal meetings?
 
Curt






Willis, Patricia 
Fri 2/10/2017 6:09 PM


Stefan & Kurt,
 
As you already know, Chris Schneider, Aaron Gratias and Larry Young met with the Local 197 bargaining team last week to discuss an extension to the current agreement.  The union’s team, along with new UWUA national representative Jami Simon, were particularly receptive to the concept of wage parity with Local 659.  As a follow-up, the parties met in Coos Bay this past week to walk through our proposal, and to answer the union’s specific questions about proposed changes to medical benefits.  
 
Although Dave Lindsley and team continued to react positively to the terms of our proposal, UWUA’s Jami Simon [successfully] urged them to consider doing a general “clean up” of contract language.  Neither Jami nor Dave suggested that they would propose substantive changes, but simply wanted the opportunity to engage in a more back-and-forth bargaining process.  I believe this is mostly due to Jami’s unfamiliarity with and/or lack of appreciation for our long standing practice of extending contracts without formal bargaining.  They also provided a list of additional questions about benefits.
 
This was a disappointing turn - particularly in light of the union’s previously stated desire for an extension - but not one that will necessarily preclude a positive and timely outcome.  The union understands that our current offer is off the table.  To keep things moving, I asked them to accommodate extended meetings to take place as soon as possible.  To that end, they agreed to the entire weeks of February 27 and March 6 in Coos Bay with the goal of achieving an agreement during that time.  In the interim, Chris and I will touch base with Paul Priest on Monday to discuss potential strategies going forward.  We’ll also schedule a conference call with both of you to provide further details and get your thoughts.    
 
Patty  



