Q: Waste Water Treatment
A: No

At this current moment in the Craft Brewing industry I do not believe an on-site wastewater treatment facility is a viable option. A more practical option is the reduction and reuse of water through technological advancements in water conservation. 

The craft beer industry is growing, and so with it are new, innovative technologies and programs, geared towards addressing the root of the problem.  A brewery needs to first implement a good water reduction program that includes an examination of their current process and design, in order to find areas of inefficient water usage, as well as employee training and education in the proper conservation of water.     
Only after a 


Q: Heating Method
A: Gas Steam Broiler

As I have learned from your classes, when planning a brewery, it is critical to plan for expansion. With expansion comes an increase in production, market distribution and the need for consistent high quality beer. In my opinion a gas steam boiler can help achieve these reproducible needs and the higher cost associated with a steam broiler can be outweighed by the controllability, repeatability and versatility for a small or large brewery.
I personally like the idea of having steam readily available throughout a brewery, weather its for heating a steam jacketed mash tun, external colandria, hot liqueur tank, steam heated CIP station, keg washing and even sanitary wash downs
Working at a geothermal power plant that produces over 320 from steam generating turbines has also contributed to my decision and gave me a great appreciation for the power steam. 


Homebrew brought along the age of craft beer and with it, great beer packaged in Bottles. At that time home brewers had limited options for packaging their beer and as they grew they stuck with the reliable and quality that glass bottles provide.
However, in todays market and the increased consumer demand for craft beer we are finding are self in an age where hombrewers are tuning into nano-breweries, nano-breweries into micro-breweies and Microbreweries growing to a whole new class of craft beer production.
This new class creates manufactures in the packaging industry to adhere to there needs, producing affortable and new options for the needs of small breweries. And inturn a consumer realization that great beer does come in a can.






