Paragraph with editing (see below for w/out editing, it’s less confusing maybe)

As a graduate Teaching Assistant (TA), I participated in the instruction, advising, and evaluation of undergraduates. I taught many laboratory classes, which gave me the opportunity to interact with each of my students individually. It was this one-on-one contact that allowed me to assess each student’s unique needs.. For this reason, I felt partially responsible for both the success and failure of my students.  I realized that some students were more successful when given an incentive to learn, others through one-on-one explanations, and still others when presented with challenging problems. As I gained experience as a TA, I began to understand  the  factors that contributed to each student’s performance, and I tuned my teaching style accordingly.   My teaching experiences have both stimulated my interest in teaching and provided me with skills to teach effectively. It is these skills that I will continue to apply inside and outside of class.


Revised paragraph shown w/out editing

As a graduate Teaching Assistant (TA), I participated in the instruction, advising, and evaluation of undergraduates. I taught many laboratory classes, which gave me the opportunity to interact with each of my students individually. It was this one-on-one contact that allowed me to assess each student’s unique needs.  For this reason, I felt partially responsible for both the success and failure of my students.  I realized that some students were more successful when given an incentive to learn, others through one-on-one explanations, and still others when presented with challenging problems. As I gained experience as a TA, I began to understand the factors that contributed to each student’s performance, and I tuned my teaching style accordingly.  My teaching experiences have both stimulated my interest in teaching and provided me with skills to teach effectively. It is these skills that I will continue to apply inside and outside of class.

