	Life has been a series of challenges to me, challenges that I have neither backed away from nor allowed to conquer me.  As a child I was diagnosed with Attention Deficit Disorder (ADD), a disease that has been thought of as no big deal.  But for me, it was a challenge that has been with me from middle school, high school, and now into college.
	My challenge by ADD first presented itself in middle school.  At this early stage I found success difficult to come by but I never quit trying to achieve all that was expected of me.  Although total success initially eluded me, I refused to quit trying.  I went to tutoring which provided me with a work environment lacking distractions.  Back and forth to tutors I went, trying to resolve and cope with this problem.  The difficulty of just trying to concentrate on comprehending the words I was reading or the tasks I was attempting remained a challenge for me.  Among the frustrations was the knowledge that was so extremely difficult for me was so easy for my classmates to accomplish.  High school was just around the corner by the time I almost got it under control.
	High school made its way into my life and so did more distractions, distractions greater than any I had yet faced.  Again I began to have trouble staying focused.  I lost the ambition that I started to have in middle school.  I did not know how or even if I could make it through the next four years of high school.  Instead, I sought a way around my problems rather than through them as I had done in the past.  My grades dropped lower than ever before.  They were always on the borderline of failing, and that’s where I stayed, on the border.  Trying something new, I enrolled in an auto class at Imperial Valley College.  I believed that if I tried something I liked, it would motivate me to do better.  Still not being able to focus, I received a failing grade.  The disappointment from my failing grade and the inability to do well in one class initially left me with no ambition to enter into college as a full time student.   It was during high school when I gave up on overcoming my ADD.  I pursued a normal working career where my ADD would not make a difference.
	After graduation I joined the workforce working long and intense hours to help support my family.  It was during this time I found myself wanting more; not just for the here and now but also for the first time I began being concerned for the future I would have.  My first step was to obtain a more meaningful job.  The medical field drew me in and I entered the field of radiology as a medical imaging aide I began to understand first hand what doctors do as they go day by day helping others.  I began to look up to their ability to help people and later realized I, too, wanted to be able to help people.  Working full time in a hospital for the past two years has made me very determined to become a physician.  I have seen the pluses and minuses that the profession entails. This realistic appraisal allows the “pluses” to add motivation and the knowledge that the “minuses” are such that they will temper but not detract from my enthusiasm.
I now set a new goal for myself, one that would bring me back to school.  I opened up my own business.  I succeeded.  With that success and yet still while working fulltime, I believed I could take on the challenge of preparing myself for medical school.  Using the determination and the confidence I gained from my business, I felt ready to attempt school again.  The fear that once defeated me was no longer going to pose a threat.
	As I encountered the educational challenge in college I looked for resources to help keep my ADD from re-emerging into a problem.  I found the Disabled Student Program Service (DSPS) a valuable resource to help me educationally.  Success bred success and as I started doing better in my classes, I became more interested in involving myself with the school.  I joined the school senate and co-founded the Imperial Valley College chemistry club.  I have now done better than ever before.  Being involved has helped me stay focused on my studies.  Now my main challenge is having a full time job that competes with full time school.  Since my job in the hospital is important for my future and one that I learn from every day, I tend to give it priority over school.   The devotion I put into my work, has been temporarily detrimental to my studies.
	However, when I transfer I will be devoting the majority of my time to my studies, due to the absence of the distraction posed by working full-time.  With this devotion to school, I am confident I will succeed in my goals.
	I plan on reaching my goal as a doctor by majoring in Biological science followed by medical school.  I am now confidently and enthusiastically beginning the next phase in my life, a phase that will lead to medical school and a life helping others through the profession of medicine.



