The Department of Rehabilitation (DOR) assists Californians with disabilities obtain and retain employment and maximize their ability to live independently in their communities. Working with individuals of every type and category of disability, DOR provides vocational rehabilitation services to eligible Californians. DOR also provides ADA technical assistance and training and funds 29 HYPERLINK "[URL REDACTED] Living Centers, which offer information and referral services to assist individuals with disabilities live active, independent lives.
Vocational Rehabilitation services are designed to get Californians with disabilities prepared for employment and can include training, education, transportation and job placement.
DOR's vocational rehabilitation services program assists Californians with disabilities obtain and retain employment and maximize their ability to live independently in their communities. The Department develops, purchases, provides, and advocates for programs and services in vocational rehabilitation, habilitation and independent living with a priority on service for persons with the most significant disabilities.

DOR has over 100 field offices located throughout California, which are grouped into 16 districts.

Some of the services DOR provides consumers may include, but are not limited to:

Counseling and guidance
Referrals and assistance to get services from other agencies
Job search and placement assistance
Vocational and other training services
Diagnosis and treatment of physical and mental impairments
Maintenance for additional costs while participating in the IPE
Transportation, if needed
On-the-job or personal assistance services
Interpreter services
Rehabilitation and orientation/mobility services for individuals who are blind
Occupational licenses, tools, equipment, initial stocks and supplies
Technical assistance for self-employment
Rehabilitation assistive technology
Supported employment services
Services to the family

The California Department of Rehabilitation (DOR) was designated by the Office of the Governor to serve as the lead state agency in California’s efforts to implement the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) in state government. The Disability Access Section (DAS) was established in 1992 to promote disability rights in state government and DOR partnerships in the community.

The Section serves as a centralized resource for providing public information, training, and technical assistance on the Fair Employment Housing Act (FEHA), ADA, and other related disability laws.

DAS program is not involved in enforcement of these laws.

Services are provided to state entities, agencies, and One-Stop service delivery systems serving persons with disabilities and employers. Our dedicated staff has 150+ collective years of professional experiences in training, employment services, vocational rehabilitation, physical access, and program assessments.
We provide comprehensive consulting services and technical assistance in the following areas:
Disability Awareness
Employment Issues
Accessibility to Programs and Services
Physical Access Surveys
Publications
Referral and Resources

"The San Diego District of the Department of Rehabilitation will be the lead agency in the provision of services to people with disabilities in the community. We will be an integral, invaluable partner with other agencies in our area that are committed to increasing employment opportunities and outcomes for people with disabilities. Our staff will be dedicated to our mission, and empowered to positively affect the lives of our consumers. In partnership with our consumers, we will develop and implement plans which result in employment outcomes consistent with the unique interest, abilities and priorities of those we serve. Trust, kindness, respect, creativity, a commitment to excellence and the exercise of professional judgment will mark our work environment."


